AWS Config give you way to record and administartor the configuration and relatioship of diffrent AWS components.
Before using the AWS Config you have to srt it up for you Account and Region.
The set up is done per account per region basis. So You have have to do set up in each region if wants to admin on multiple region.

Seting-Up AWS Config:-
	To set up the AWS-Config in yout account and in region you should use the Console. 
	If set has not been run, you will not see any option other then 'set up aws config'. So do it.
	You will need to set below thing in the set up:
	1. Resource Type to record:-
			You can set if you wants to record 
				- All the resources in this region or 
				- Some specific like EC2, Cloudfront, S3.
	2. Delivery Channel:-
			AWS Config sends notifications and updated configuration states through the delivery channel.
			To use the AWS Config you must set it. You have to set a S3 bucket for a delivery channel. 
				- This could be in your account or in other account
				- The region of bucket must be same as of the AWS Config.
				- Thers is only one Delivery chanel per region per account. 
				- You can also set a SNS topic for notification. The Topic could be from your or other account in same region.
				- You can have only one delivery channel per region per AWS account, and the delivery channel is required to use AWS Config	
	3. Data retention period:
			You could set to store data up to 7 year or less.
	4. Monitor Global rersource: 
			You can set if you wants to track the global resource like IAM user, group also in the AWS-Config
			
	Once you set it up, the AWS Config will start recirding any changes happen on the resource you set to looking for.
	It will start recording.
	
Updating AWS Config:-
	You can stop the recording any tine you wants. in AWS Config > Setting
	You can also change setting of Resource type to look for, Delivery channel and Data Retension preiod too in AWS Config > Setting

Mechanics of AWS Config:-
	When you turn on AWS Config, it first discovers the supported AWS resources that exist in your account and generates a configuration item for each resource
	AWS Config also generates configuration items when the configuration of a resource changes, and it maintains historical records.
	Whenever any configuration changes is done by anyone on monitered resource then AWS-Config make the Describe*** call to get the configuration detail of that resource.
	By default it track for all the resources in the account in that region unless you selected only few resource type at a time of set up.
	AWS Config deliver the Configuration files of resources in the delivery S3 bucket every 6 hour.

Configuration Recorder:-
	The configuration recorder stores the configurations of the supported resources in your account as configuration items. 
	You must first create and then start the configuration recorder before you can start recording
	By default, the configuration recorder records all supported resources
	You are charged service usage fees when AWS Config starts recording configurations

Inventory/Discovered resources:-
	This are the AWS resources that are dicovered by the AWS Config and candidate of monitoring.
	It may also contains the resources that are deleted. You can view then in console or by api.  
	Not all the resource type are supported by AWS-Config.	

Global Resources Monitoring:-
	The global resoures are not tied to any specific AWS region. snd so if you enable the AWS-Config to track the global resources then it may be possible that this 
	resource may also be tracked in other regions. So there will be mutiple AWS-Config tracking will be there for same resource.
	The same recordwill exist in each AWS0Config enabled region.
	SO it better to plan it accordingly and enable the 'track global resource' only in one region.
		
Information of Non-selected AWS resource type:-
	Surprisingly AWS Config track the Creation and Deletion of even non-selected type AWS resources. 
	Thoug it will not track any other detail like configuration and relation etc.
	If you were tracking a resource but later put then off the list of trackable resource then AWS config still keep the older info of that resource.

Querying:-
	You can write the SQL like qury to fetch theresource and its config
	You can fetch it from Single or multiple account and from single or multiple region.	
	
IF your AWS Config is set up then you will have below informations in your hand for monitered resources.

	1. Configuration Items:
			A configuration item represents a point-in-time view of the various attributes of a supported AWS resource that exists in your account.
			It include 
			> Metadata: 						version, time to captire config, is capturing successful, ordering information of config. 
			> Attribute: 						Resource ID, ARN, Tags, time of resource creation, AZ 
			> Relationships: 				Relation with other resources like EC2 with SG or ALB with TG. 
			> Current Configuration:Output of List** or Describe** api for thst resource. 			

	2. Configuration history of Resource:-
			You can answre like 
			 > when the resource was first created
			 > What was its configuration last month
			 > What changes were made yesterday in its config
			 > The configuration history is available to you in multiple formats in selected S3 bucket
			 > If any AWS config rule is applied then you can also see if this resource currently otr in past underwent a Non-Compiant. 
	
	3. Configuration Snapshot:-
			This configuration snapshot is a complete picture of the resources that are being recorded and their configurations
		
	4. Configuration Stream:-
			A configuration stream is an automatically updated list of all configuration items for the resources that AWS Config is recording. 
			Every time a resource is created, modified, or deleted, AWS Config creates a configuration item and adds to the configuration stream
			You can set the SNS notification to take action on any event

	5. Resource Relationship:-
			AWS Config discovers AWS resources in your account and then creates a map of relationships between AWS resources
		
------------------------------------------------------------	

AWS Config Rule:-
	The AWS-Config if set up will record the cofiguration of resources but it will not automatically detect if somone goes non-compiant
	for this comes the config rule.
	It can only be used it AWS-Config is et up in given account and region.
	To use this you have to Add the Rule. The Rule is statemnt of defining if a aws resource is complient or not.	
	This are a lambda function which ran on certain event or schedule to detemine the compiance of resource.
	
	There are two kind
		1. AWS Managed:-
				AWS provide many of such rule. you just have to add thenm and it will start looking if any resource goes in non compliant.
		2. Custom made
				You can write your own rule with lambda.
			
	Rule Trigger:-
		You can trigger the rule evaluation 
		- Priodically in every 1, 6, 3, 12, 24 hour [EG: evaluate every 24 hour if any access-key or password is 90 days old.]
		- By change detection by AWS-Config for certain tyoe of resource. EG [eveluate if config change is detectd for AWS::EC2::SecurityGroup].
		
	Scope: 
		It define on which resources config changes the evaluations of rule must be ran to find compliance. it could be
			- One or more resource types
			- A combination of a resource type and a resource ID
			- A combination of a tag key and value
			AWS Config runs the evaluation when it detects a change to a resource that matches the rule's scope.

	Rule Parameter:-
		Some of the rule can take the input parameter for evaluation mechanics. 
		EG. A rule may ask for parameter for 'maxAccessKeyAge' for evaluatiog if any access key is older then what user wnats it to be.
	
	Impact of turnig off recorder:
		If you turn off the aws config recorder then 
		- Any config rule trggered with config changes will not be evaluated for changes
		- Any config rule with triggered preiodically will keep evaluating at set frequency. 
				and it will take last read configuration of resource which were read by recorder
		- On demand rule evaluation will consider the last read fetch configuration of resouce by recorder.
				and it will take last read configuration of resource which were read by recorder

	On-Demand Rule Evaluation:
		You can run the rule evaluation at any time if you need to know comlianve immediately.

	Deleting result
		You can delete the result of evaluation if you need to re evaluate them again

	> You can set up the CloudWatch event rule to take action if any AWS-Config Rule compliance fail.

--------------

AWS Config Rule > Remediation action:

	The aws config rule can detect the non compliant resource but it can not 
	do any thing by its own to resolve it.
	you can use the remediation action to automatically or manually take action to Remediate it.
	this are ssm automation document that ran as remedies.

	Type:
		Manual remediation: 
			you have to do it manually each time for non  compliant rule.
		automatic: 
			the aws vonfig automatically execute the ssm automation script on non compliant detection

	Rate limit
		you can set the max percentage of resource on wich ths ssm is executed at a time

	Parameter:
		you can give source of parameter which is used inside the ssm script.

	SSM automation: 
		you must select the ssm automation that you wants to run as remeady.
		aws provide many and you can also create your own

--------

Multi account Muti region aggregator:-
	you can set to have single account which will have 
	AWS config data from same account same region
	AWS config data from same account multiple region
	AWS config data from multiple account multiple region.
	AWS config data from aws Organization.

	Agregattor account:
		this is the aws account who will collect the data from multiple source account and region
	Aggregator: 
		this is a aws resource that you need to create in aws account who will acr as aggregator.
	Source 
		this are the source account whos aws config data will be sent to aggregator.
		the source account must have aws config recorder enabled
		it could be individual account or aws Organization 
		if aggregator is of account type then it must grant permission to aggregator account before collecting data.

	Permission modal:
		if you select individual account by account id then you must provide permission to aggregator in source account.
		you can see permission request in aws config console.
		if its by aws Organization then no permission neened
	
	Service role for Aggregator:
		the role muat carry permission AWSConfigRoleForOrganizations.

----------------------

Conformance pack:
	This is a buldle of aws config rule and appropiate remediation collection.
	you can simply drploy it as package and start monitoring compilance and running temedy if needed.
	this is YAML format doc.
	AWS provides many such packs.
	You can deploy it across
	- An Account
	- And account in multiple region
	- in the AWS Organization
	
--------------------------------------------------------------		
	

	
