Cost Minimization
  - Data transferred between Amazon EC2, Amazon RDS, Amazon Redshift, Amazon ElastiCache instances, and Elastic Network Interfaces in the same Availability Zone is free
  - Data transfer between EC2 and S3 bucket in same region is free.
  
  EFS VS EBS VS S3:-
    EBS: Charged for provisioned storage. HIGHEST COST. becoz you may have to pay for allocated but unused space
    EFS: Charged based on current allocated storage size. LOWER COST. Only pay for used space
    S3:  Charged based on current allocated storage size. LOWEST COST. Only pay for used space but cost less then EFS
  
Comparision:-
  S3
  |
  |
  |-----File Gateway                  SMB and NFS
  |
  |-----Volume Gateway                ICSCI
          |
          |-----Stogare Volume
          |-----Cached Volume

  SSD/HDD
  |
  |
  |--------EFS                              PSOIX/NFS Linux only
  |
  |--------FSX
            |
            |-----FSx window File server    SMB       Window only
            |-----FSx Luster                PSOIX     Linux only
            

FSX Window VS S3 File Gateway:- 
  FSX window is fully managed Window Server which can be used with On-Premise Data storage or AWS Backed Storage (SSD).
  The storage here is not S3 but some SSD drive at aws or in on premise.
  Support SMB
S3 File Gateway:-
  This is the service that gives you File-based SMB as well as NFS interface to access the Onbecj-baseed S3 files storage.
  Here YOu do not have the full blown window file server but you do have 
  - A way to access the file via SMB/NFS client 
  - A way to perform operation with S3 API and all feature od S3.

---------------

Disaster Recovery Mechanichs:-
            Multi Site        Warm Standby        Pilot Light       Back and Restore
Cost        Highest           Moderate            Less              Cheapest
RTO-RPO     0                 Minute              Hour              No commitment
Use Caase   Mission-critical  Buisness-Critical   Core-Services     NA
Statrt      No need           No Need             Needed            -
Scalling    No need           Needed              Needed            -

 1. Backup and Restore: 
    A typical Tape based back up on cheap storage and restore it whne needed. It can have the loss of data based on defined RPO.
    You can have back up of data in same or diffrent region.
    Tjhere is no standby infrasturcure running or in stop state.
    At time of disaster:-
      - You can retruve data from back up
      - You have to deploy infrastructure first
      - then deploy app lication and set configuration too
      - start and scale in infra if needed
      - then map user to new deployed app
    
    Useful AWS feature for back up:-
      EBS datalifecycle and snapshot, S3 replication, S3 versioning, RDS snapshot, Aurora DB snapshot, AMI Copy

 2. Pilot Light:- 
    you copy the database, Objects storage and required file in DR region.
    Also a scale down version of your code infractuture is also provisioned and softwares are installed and confugured.
    But infrastructure is in stopped state and will not be able to handle any traffic. 
    At time of disaster:-
      - start and scale in infra if needed
      - then map traffic to DR region
    
    Useful AWS service for data copy to other region:-
      RDS Cross region replication
      Aurora global databases
      DynamoDB global tables      
      S3 Cross region replication
      AMI Copy to other region with data lifecycle manager
      
  Use AWS Cloudformation with pseudo parameter to deploy the same but scale down version of infra in DR region.
  Use EC2 Hibernate feature to keep EC2 ready to start quickly
  To scale up you change setting of ASG, DynamoDB throput, create read replica etc.
  Use Route53 failover routing with health check or Global Accelarator with healthcheck to redirect request to active region.  

 1. Warm Stadby:- 
    you copy the database, Objects storage and required file in DR region.
    Scaled down, but fully functional, copy of your production environment in another Region. 
    At time of disaster:-
      You just have to scale up 
    To scale up you change setting of ASG, DynamoDB throput, create read replica etc.

  Warm Standby VS Pilot light:-
    In pilot light the DR region will not be able to handle any single request as it is swiched off.
    In Warm Standby the DR region will not be able to handle few request as it is in on but scale down state

 2. Multi Site:- 
    Active-Active failover system. No Start and No scalling required.
    
    
       

  


