Cloudtrail logs the event for action taken by
  a user, role, or an AWS service
Via
  AWS Management Console, AWS Command Line Interface, and AWS SDKs and APIs

In a single event you can know
  who did 
  what he/she 
  what resources impacted 
  when it happen 
 
CTL helps you enable governance, compliance, and operational and risk auditing of your AWS account
CTL is enabled by default
To see the the recent event just go to the console of CTL. Thogh you can see log from past 90 days only.

ETL Event:-
  There is 3 type of Event CloudTrain moniter
  1. Management Events:-
      This is Enabled by default and most of the event fall in this catagory. This event consist of operations that are performed on resources
      EG. EC2 started, stoped, IAM uer created etc.
  2. Data Event:-
      This event are not enabled by default.  
      This event can be capture only if you have set up the trail. you cannot view this event in 'Event History' of CTL console page.
      Bassically there is only two kind of resource whe generate this event.
        1. S3 object-level Logging (GetObject, DeleteObject, and PutObject)
        2. Lambda execution (Invoke api)
      These are high volume activity and can have millions of data event in short span of time.
  3. Insights events:-  
      Just like data event, This event are also not enabled by default. 
      and This event can be capture only if you have set up the trail. you cannot view this event in 'Event History' of CTL console page.
      If you have Insights events enabled, and CloudTrail detects unusual activity, 
      Insights events are logged to a different folder or prefix in the destination S3 bucket for your trail.
      EG.
        your account typically logs no more than 20 Amazon S3 deleteBucket API calls per minute, 
        but your account starts to log an average of 100 deleteBucket API calls per minute. 
        An Insights event is logged at the start of the unusual activity, and another Insights event is logged to mark the end of the unusual activity.
