Before jump first you should know what is CDN?

CDN means content delivery networ, This are the collection of data center/server spread across the earth (to cache the content)
to deliver the content as fast as possible. 

Suppose your origin server lie at london and you call the file from Austrelia.

Now CDN first go to london and get the file to user who asked for but latter it will cache the file to nearest server.
So next time someone ask in austrelia then it may not go to london but get it from neareast cache-server

So CDN is strong if there is great network of server/center are their to cache. 


CDN of AWS : CloudFront :-
Clodfront is a tool that enable to use the CDN for many aws servoces. It core is a great network of EDGE-LOCATIONs spread 
across the entire earth. there are total ??? edge location currently.

Egde-location: This is the collection of network/server which can cache the content.
  this is diffrent from Region and AZ, This are the servers which use to cache the resource and expedite its delivery

What edge-location can cache :-
  .html, .css, .js,
  video
  images
  many thing
  
  
How to set it up:-
For now brief it up and later go in detail-
  1.  First set up the origin server, it could be a S3 bucket or your own web server 
  2.  You upload the file(.html. .js, .mkv) to origin server 
  3.  You create a CloudFront distribution by aws console of aws-CLI, which tells CloudFront which origin servers to get your files from 
        when users request the files through your web site or application. aws anutomatically spread this info to entire edge-location network.
  4.  CloundFront give you a alternative domain to you files, now you should us

now if you access the file by the given cloudfrong domain name then the edge network become active
get the information of origin server from 'cloudfrong domain name' and cache the file if requied.


IF user try to get conent but its not yet cached at edge location trhen it will be get from the origin location via normal internet
then it will be cached to the nearest edge location.
next time if sombody ask for this file then it will be redeliverd from the cacheed location


Cloudfront With S3 Bucket :-
Suppose you have files in S3 and wants it delivery to be super fast via Cloud front. Stweps-
  1. Open CloudFront
  2. Origin Domain Name : The domain name of origin, it could be a S3 bucket(in our case), a web server etc.
  3. Origin Path: the sub path after Orignal domain name
  4. ........Hell lot of other ......
  ....long wait to enable.....
  Done and you got a cloufront domain url 



YOu have a S3 bucket:- 
  'mufbio' and you have 'mypic.png' in it.
  You set up cloudfront for this bucket
  Now finally :-
  
  http://d29u64au9dl7cv.cloudfront.net/mypic.png  
      : will use cloudfront distribustion 
  And
  https://mufbio.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/mypic.png
      : Will use normal internet
  


Alternative of AWS-CloudFront :  Akamai, And its a absolute leader here. Akamai rule the CDN word because its server prsensse of more than 216000
  Other: azure CDN, clodfate, cdnjs, UNPKG


As we are talking about CDN, You may have uset cdn link of many js libs already 
like:-
  cdnjs/cloudflare for jquery :         https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.4.1/core.js
  google cdn for jquery:                https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.4.1/jquery.min.js 
  Microsoft CDN for Jquery:             https://ajax.aspnetcdn.com/ajax/jQuery/jquery-3.4.1.min.js



-----


Cloudfront With EC2 :- ????????????????????????????



Cloudfront With LB : ?????????????????


Cloudfront With self hosted server : ??????????????

