Autoscalling is the GERM of AWS.

When you are using EC2 for any computing (like webserver, DB analysis, image processing), you may need to 
add/remove some more instance depending on load on each EC2.

EC2 - Auto scalling is done via configuring two part
  1.  Launch Configuration
        Here you decide how your each EC2 instance would look like. its cpu/memory/EBS capacity, bootstrap script, 
        Security Group, SSH-key pair
        Actully setting this up is almost same as launching a new EC2 instance except in the end it will not launche
        it, but save the set up for on demand launch.
  2.  Auto Scalling Group
        This will set the scenario and capacity, that in which condition we should launch the instances and how many of them
        should be launch. Also you set in which AZ they should be launch.
                
        2.1. First you need to select the 'Launch Configuration' you created earlier
        2.2. Then Desired capacity: the number of instances you wants up and running in normal load
        2.3. Then select the VPC  ?????????????
        2.4. Then select subnet (AZ) -> 
              You may slect as many availavble (AZ) possible in your region. 
              The launched will happen in the AZ which are selected first.
              It not necesaarily same as value selected in step 2 
        2.5 Optional: We can set them to receive traffic from LB as well. You can select LB group here.
            ?????????????????
        2.6 Set the policy:-
              2.6.1 Policy for scalling: Set the condition when the scal up and scale down should happen
                  eg. :  if cpu utilization of each EC2 goes above 90% then sacle up.
              2.6.1 Set How Many Minimum instance you will need at least: This much instance will always be avaialable
              2.6.2 Set How many Maximum instance you can bear: Set one by one how many instance the system can create if situtation demand autoscalling
        7 Select some ore things like tah and all.
        DONE
        Once you are done, the EC2 instances will launch automatically and at the begining the number of instances launched 
        will be equal to value choosed in step 2.2
                      
        All Tuning eg:
         in normal time number of instances = value choosed in step 2.2
         if policy break an need more capasity (eg: if cpu utilization of each EC2 goes above 90% ) then sacle up
         and launch new instances. launch one at a time till you reach at point where no of running instances  =  value choosed in step 2.6.1
         Significance of value  choosed in step 2.6.2  ??????????????????
         
         
         IMP : 
            value in step 2.6.1  <= value in step 2.2  <=  value in step 2.6.2
              
              
