
   Object VS block storage :-
      To understand the behavior of S3 you musr first focus on its way of working, To understnd the doffrence lets say i wants to sve a 
      100 MB file in storage.
      How diffrent type of storage will behave ? 
      1. Block based -: 
            HEre the file will be splited in small block of 1MB (just assumed) each. then this small puices are saved in memory blocks
            later when you need this 100mb file again, the storage system will retrive those 100 block, arrange them in proper order.
            recreate the 100 MB file again and return it.
            advantage - 
              1. Block storage devices provide low latency IO, so they are suitable for use by Relationshih-databases and OS.
              2. This is best if you wants to do an blob level operation eg. here you can easily append a single line to the end of a log file
             disadvatages :-
              1. if rented from any clod provider (like EC2's EBS) you will have to pay for what size you allocated.
              2. strongly tied to db and server infrastructure strongly, increasunf size of block storage may need a complete infrastrucure overhaul.
              3. You can only access block storage through a running server

        2. Object Based :-
            Here the file is not at splited, instead a file is saved as it is whithout any modification. once stoered it will return a key 
            that will be a identifier of this data or file.
            Now when you need it again you simply use this key to query and you get whole of your file back.
            In simple word - In shoping mall before you enter you deposit your beg to gatekeeper, he gives you a token. later you use this token 
              to get the bag back. The beg is an Data or file (doesnt matted the size or content of bag), the tokn is a key.
            Advangate :-
            1. The content and size of the file doesnt matter, you simply place them in storage, and get the key for later retrival.
                 It could store json, xml, image, video, js, html, mouse(ok not a mouse) almost any kind and size of file/data
            2. Its infinitly expandable, if you need to scale up/down the storage space then add/remove some storage devices and do not need to make any
               changes in rest of the infrastructure.
            3. with the key and proper HTTP api you can get anu data from storage anywhere.
            4. lot of meta data can also be saved along with file/data.
            5. A cost structure that means you only pay for what you use

            
            disadvantage :-
            1. You can’t use object storage services to back a traditional database, due to the high latency of such services
            2. Operating systems can’t easily mount an object store like a normal disk
            3. Object storage doesn’t allow you to alter just a piece of a data blob, you must read and write an entire object at once. 
                This has some performance implications. eg. to add one log line in a log file you have to delete, edit and put entire file again.
      
        
