Lambda is the smallest unit of code that can run as serverless on AWS system.

Lambda and IAM Role:-
  You have to assign a Role to ypur lembda function. and tahe role must have a permission 'AWSLembdaExecute'.
  Along with this yous should also assign the permission if you wants to access/change/operate any other AWS service
  So create the Role you wants first
  
Creating the Lembda:-
  1.  Compute > Lembda > Create Lembda
  2.  input the name and desc
  3.  Choose Role you created earlier
  4.  Chosse runtime like Node, Java etc.
  5.  either write code or upload the ZIP
    5.1 if file is ZIP then you must specify 'Handler' as <fileName>.<functionName>, which will be placed at root of ziped folder
  6 Also set the env variable if required {eg. if runtime is Node then you can use process.env.<envVarName> in the code and set its value in AWS console}
  Now you are done with the code But when this little pice of code will ran ?
  Next! Lets set the trigger for this Lambda
  7. AWS COnsole > Lambda > Functions > select your lambda function > configuration > Add Trigger
  8 Now here the configuration of trigger is done. This is very abstract topic and you can set up diffrent AWS service to trigger this 
    function for you
    E.G : you can Select S3, then select the bucket in it and set the event like upload, delete, edit file to trigger this event
  Done
  
 Setting up envirment vasrible:-
  You can use the env variable in the code and supply its value via aws console.
  EG: in node runtime-
    ...
    if(process.env.isprod === tru)
      ...
    now set the value of 'isprod' in aws console simply.
  
 ---------
Q:  How many lambda can be call cocurrently
A:  1000
-----------------------------


Cocurrency:-
  In AWS lambda there is overall limit for number of paraller execution count for any aws account and that is 1000
  It means combining all lembda function the max possible run at a time is 1000.
  if more lambda execution are requested then it will be denied and a response with 'TooManyRequestException' error with code 549 will be received.
  VIMP : this limit is on the account across all the lambda not for each lambda.
  
  Reserved Cocurrency:-
    As you know there is a limit on overall account and so on all the lambada combined. 
    But lets say there is some funcvtions that you think are mission critical na dyou wants them to when needed.
    But you knw that there is a overall limit.
    To solve this we can reserve the cocurency for those function. This will actully keep some cocurucy reserved for mission critical lambda
    How:
      AWS > Lambda > 'you lambda' > in section Concurrency set the value of reserved cocurency.
      The rest of the cocurrency will be left for the rest of the lambda functions.    
    

Pricing :-

scaling:-












