AWS provide many Migration services and tool to simplify the migration from On-Premise to Cloud or Cloud to On-Premiser.

Some of then are
  1. VM Import/Export:
      Useful for creating AMI for VM image(.ova) of on-premise and vice verca
      For detail: see 'Compute - EC2/EC2 - AMI.txt'
  2. Database Migration Services:-
      Useful to migrate DB to and from On-Premise and Cloud
      For Detail see: 'DB/DB.txt'
  3. Server Migration Service:
      This is now deprecated and you should use 'Application Migration Service'
  4. Application Migration Service:-
      Use this to migrate the Servers.
  5. Migration Hub:-
      This is common wondow to track and mange all your migration, be it by any tool from below
        - AWS Application Migration Service
        - AWS Server Migration Service [DEPRECATED]
        - AWS Database Migration Service
        - ATADATA ATAmotion partner tool

Application Migration Service:-
  This is used to migrate the Severs to the Clooud.
  
AWS Application Discovery Service:-
  Befor you migrate to the Cloud. you need to collect lot of data from your On-Premise server.
  Collecting this data is very difficult. To solve this come 'Application Discovery Service'
  This tools helps you to coolect data form on premise server and later you can use this data to arcgitech your app in cloud.
  The data collected are stored in Migration Hub and you can view them in there. 
  You can group the discovered server in the groups.
  
  Application Discovery Service offers two ways of performing discovery
    1. Agent-less discovery:-
        For this you need to install the 'Agentless Discovery Connector' (.ova) in the VMware vCenter.
        For this you will need IAM permission 'AWSAgentlessDiscoveryService'
        It collect below data
          Static Data:  IP, HostName, MAC addresses, disk resource allocations
          Utilization Data: RAM, CPU, Disk usage,  
          
    2. Agent-based discovery    
        For this you have to install 'AWS Application Discovery Agent' on each of your VMs and physical servers.
        For this you will need IAM user with permission 'AWSApplicationDiscoveryAgentAccess '. 
          You will need it acceess key and secret od for installin agent on on prrmise.
        It Collect below data:-
          Static Data:  IP, HostName, MAC addresses, disk resource allocations
          Utilization Data: RAM, CPU, Disk usage with detail time serise info
          Running services on host
          inbound and outbound network connections
          
          
          
          
    
    
