
Its always best to keep the data encrypted.

B4 dive in, 
  The Encryption need one most ipm part that is 'encryption key'.
  So if you wants to do any kind of encryption you must need an key. For this the AWS provide the ecosystem of key management thats called 
  KMS. 
  I am not diving into how you create the key. But there is two type of key
  1. AWS managed key ('default-key') : This is a default key that is generated for you. though you cannot delete/change it at all.
      there is one anly one such key for each account. 
      Its key policy written as such that the root user and all the IAM user can do use tis key for 'kms:encrypr' and 'kms:decrypr'
      But root user can do some more operation like 'kms:Get*', 'kms:List'
      But no one (not even root) has permicssion for action 'kms:Delete'.
      
  2. Customer Managed Key (CMK)
      You can create your own keys here and manage its access by the key policy. Just like the BP in S3, there is Key Policy in KMS.
      Key policy define that the key assosiated with it, will be accessible (for what action also) to which IAM users.
      Its key policy written as such that the root user and all the IAM user can do use tis key for 'kms:encrypr' and 'kms:decrypr'
      some user can do some more operation like 'kms:Get*', 'kms:List'
      few user has permicssion for action 'kms:Delete'.

  Actully both kay work 100% same, the only diffrence is one is not at all changable by even root account.
  
  So first lets create a key and give iy key policy.

Simplest : upload a file in regular bucket with encryption :-
  When you upload a file via aws console, in 'Set Properties' step you will be given 3 option for encryption
  1. None
  2. Amazon S3 master-key : This will encrypt the file with default-key. and as you know all the IAM user do have permission to access this for 
                  encryption.
  3. AWS KMS master-key : You can choose some other key also. but you must first have the access to this key for doing the encryption.
                          if you has, then paste the id of the key there.
    
  Once you upload it, the S3 system remember which key is used to encrypting the file. so you do not have to provide it again at a time of decryption.
  
  Now suppose any one try to retrive it
  So at a time of retrival S3 automatically get this key for user(this could be the one who uploaded or any IAM User/Role/Ec2) 
  BUT it does chek if user have permission to use this key for decryption.
  And AWS gain uses the Key-Policy attach withis key to determine the permission.
  If permission is denied then user will not be able to decrypt this file and you will get 'Access denied' error even you have uploaded ir yourself.
  
  So if an file uploded with encryption via a key, then other people will be able to read only and only if they has permission of 'decrypt' via this key
  
 
Encrypt/Decrypt pubic/Anonymous file :-
  upload Anonymously with encryption :-
      you fisrt need a bucket with ACL = public
      set BPAF = off
      Create a key in KMS, which should have key-policy as such     "Principal": "*"    can encrypt/decrypt the file. 
      Now use api PutObject, with below with encryption header
      'x-amz-server-side-encryption'
      This could have two value
        1. ?????? : If you wants to use default-key
        2. aws:kms: if you wants to use the custon key
      In case of 'aws:kms' you should also provide the id of the key in body as
      'x-amz-server-side-encryption-aws-kms-key-id' : 'key Id'
      
      VVIMP: This work only and only if key has the policy "Principal": "*" 
      
      postman eg: 'S3 direct file upload Encrypted'
      
      UNFORTUNATLY: I am getting this error all the time 
          <Message>Requests specifying Server Side Encryption with AWS KMS managed keys require AWS Signature Version 4.</Message>
    
    retriving Anonymously with decryption :-  
      Here you do not have to provide the key again, if key allow the    "Principal": "*"   to do the decryption then it will work
      Simply use GetObject api
      postman:- 'S3 Get Encrypted file'
      
      
      VVIMP: Here you should make plant one idea in mind very robustly, that is
              The uploader provide the encryption key at a time of uploading.
             The retriver no at all have to reprovide it, instead S3 will automatically get that key for him,
             BUT BUT BUT the retriver must have permission to perform 'kms:decrypt' operation with that key.
      
       
      
 Encryption over entire bucket:- 
    Actully there is no way to set up somthing like 'encrypt all the file with this key'
    also there is no straight forward way to set up somthing like 'encrypt each uploading file with this key'
    
    Encryption occure only over the objevt not on bucket itself.
    
    But thate is couple of tricks in BP, through wich you can configure the bucket behavior wrt encryption of its contents.
    
    How we do it?
    Simply in BP you must place some restriction/conditions as such that bkt will accept only if those condition got fullfiled.
    
    Now what are the tools to use for this condition?
    You know if you upload a file, what api is actully being used/called 
    that is PutObject.
    Now if you wants it to be uploded with eencryption then what headre u must provide
    that is 'x-amz-server-side-encryption'
    So thats your first and formost tool
    you may/may not also use the key-ir param if u sed 'aws:kms'
    so 'x-amz-server-side-encryption-aws-kms-key-id' is your another tool
 
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
