Active Directory service:-
  AWs provide diffrent tools for Active Directory services.

    1. AWS Microsoft Active Directory:-
        A fully managed service of AWS which can be used to create complete Miscrosoft AD system on the cloud. it integrated with many AWS services.
        When you wants DIRECTORY-AWARE-WORKLOAD on aws.
    2. AD Connector:-
        AD Connector is your best choice when you have an existing on-premises directory and wants those user to log into AWS apps and services
    3. Simple AD:
        Low cost and trim down version of 'AWS Microsoft Active Directory' for basic usage.


AWS OpsWork:-
  AWS OpsWorks is a configuration management service that helps you configure and operate applications in a cloud enterprise by using Puppet or Chef.
  1. AWS OpsWorks for Puppet Enterprise: To create the Pupet master server that manages all configuration and facts about the nodes in infra.
  2. AWS OpsWorks for Chef Automate: automated workflow for continuous deployment and compliance checks
  3. AWS OpsWorks Stacks: AWS OpsWorks Stacks lets you deploy and monitor applications inn on premise and cloud based on the Stack-model
  

AWS Glue:-
  It is a ETL (Extract - Transform - Load) service which is used for Semi-Structured data.
  - This is used for creating data warehouse or data lake
  - This is erverless so you do not have to have a infra setup, instead AWS provision it based on reqirmernt
  - It read data from 'Data Source' and perform 'Job' on it and finally write in 'Data Target'
  - you provide the IAM role, VPC ID, subnet ID, and security group that are needed to access data sources and targets
  Components:-
    Data Source:-
      S3, RDS, DDB, Kenesis
      Kafka, MongoDB, JDBC
    Job:-
      Jobs consist of scripts that contain the programming logic that performs the transformation. This job triger based on event or schedule.
    Data Targets:-
      S3, RDS, JDBC, Kafka
    Glue Data Catalog:-
      This is the persistent metadata storage. this contains the info about data stored in data sources.
    Crawler:-
      This is the crawler that keet scanning, extracting and loading the metadata in the Glie Data Catalog.
    Trigger:-
      Te\here is two way to trigger the AWS Glue job
      1. Event: triggetr on specific event. like arrival of now data, object on s3, DDB etc.
      2. Time based: Simply schedule it for a specific time.
      
      
      
 AWS Back up:-
  This is fully managed service for creating the centralized back up plan across the Services, On-Premises, Accounts, Region.
  It allows you to auomtate and conslidate backup tasks that were previously performed service-by-service, and removes the need to create custom scripts and manual processes
  you can automate your data protection policies and schedules
  Below services are supported
    RDS, DDB, Aurora, EFS, EBS, FSx.
  Back up plan:-
    A backup plan is a policy expression that defines when and how you want to back up your AWS resources
    It also define how long you wants to retain it.
 Feature:-
  - Centralized back up monitoring
  - Cross Account back up and management
  - Cross Region back up  
    
  
AWS Trusted Advisor:-
  This tool provide you the real time guidence foe building your infra wrt to below
  Cost, Security, Fault Tolerance, Service Limit,PErformance.
  This is tied with CW Event[Event Bridge] so you can take action on any finding of it. [Its available in Us-East-1 only]
  It has free tier and paid tier. PAid will have detail analysis.
  It also has the limit that the account get at least at 30 minute interval.

AWS WorkSpace:-
  As its name suggest it is nothing but a way to set up desktop for office work in AWS.
  You can create as many desktop as you wants and then distribute among employees.
  Choose your operating system (Windows or Amazon Linux) and select from a range of hardware configurations, software configurations, and AWS Regions
  Integrated with AWS Microsoft AD, Simple AD and AD connector
  
  
AWS Server Migration Service:-
  Use this to migrate the server running on-premise to AWS cloud.
  You can migrate VMware vSphere, Microsoft Hyper-V/SCVMM, and Azure virtual machines to the AWS Cloud. 
  AWS SMS incrementally replicates your server VMs as cloud-hosted Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) ready for deployment on Amazon EC2
  
  
AWS SagaMaker:-
  Amazon SageMaker is a fully managed machine learning service. 
  With SageMaker, data scientists and developers can quickly and easily build and train machine learning models, 
  and then directly deploy them into a production-ready hosted environment
  

Service Health Dashboard:-
  Displays the general status of AWS services, 
AWS Personel Health Dashboard:-
  Displays personalized view of alerts and remediation guidance when AWS is experiencing events that may impact you. 
  
  
AWS Service Catalog:-
  Use this to whitelist the service that can used withine your AWS organization.
  These IT services can include everything from virtual machine images, servers, software, and databases to complete multi-tier application architectures. 
  AWS Service Catalog allows you to centrally manage deployed IT services and your applications, resources, and metadata.
  

AWS Compute Optimizer:-
  AWS Compute optimizer help you to get the Recommendation that is your resources are under or over used.
  It actully analyze metric data and utilization data and generate the findings which containe recommendation 
  This help you to evaluate if you should oversize or undersize your resource
  It generate recommendation for
  - EC2
  - ASG
  - ES
  - Lambda
  It read the back metrics of 14 days for this. You can choose to hae advance for higher cost.


AWS QuickSight:-
  This is cloud-scale business intelligence (BI) service.
  You can use it to make Visulization, decesion, analysis of data from many diffrent sources.
  You can source datah from supported sources and then create a visuslization, dashboard from it.
  Suported sources are very wide like
    AWS data: RDS, Aurora, S3, Athena, OpenSearch, Redshift
    On-premise or EC2 database: MariaDB, MySQL, Teradata etc.
    Data File: CSV, TSV, Json, xlsx
    SaaS Data: Jira, ServiceNow, Git, Twitter, Salesforce
    third party data: Twitter
    excel sheet
    etc.
  This powerful tool bear no upfront charges. and you do not need to manage and create any infra. Just provide the data source set the BI and done.
    
  
  
  

