The cloudforamation in simple word is "Infra AS Code"

This is the way to w4rite complete inra in Jsom or Yaml file. You can write the file or use AWS designer for this.
You can design  EC2, S3, RDS etc with this.
Once the templatebjson or Yaml is created, it can be used anywhere to build whole infra out of this template. 
Its impossible to become master in clouformation and know how cloudformation template can be designed to make EC2, S3 etc.
But you should know the fundamentals

To understand the CloudFormation always remebper there is two party 
one is Creator, who create the template
other is Builder who is building the stack out of template

Creatore create the template as such that the tempplate
has definations of RESOURCES like EC2, S3 etc
has some MAPPING, which are like a function which take one input and return the set of label
has some PARAMETER which are set by Builder at a time of stack building
has OUTPUT, which are final logs of stack creation

---------

Elastic Beanstalk VS CloudFormation
CloudFormation a great grand father of Elastic Beanstalk.
ELB is not programmable meaning you set up an preconfigured application either for hello world or with existing code (war/zip)
CloudFormation is the soluction where you can change, create, delete, update all the diffrent parts(EC2, S3 ..) of your app. Its completely programmable.

--------

Template designer:-
  The fastest and easiest way to create a template is to use template builder of AWS.
  its so simple with drag drop and fir refrence always use sample template.
  
-------

Nested Stack:-
  You can use stack whithine a stack.
      Type: AWS::CloudFormation::Stack
      Properties: 
        NotificationARNs: 
          - String
        Parameters: 
          Key : Value
        Tags: 
          - Tag
        TemplateURL: String
        TimeoutInMinutes: Integer
  
  TemplateURL:- This is S3 url where the template is stored.
  When you use Nested stack you never do the update/delete operation over child template stack, you will do it over the parent only.
  
-------

Log files:-
  User Data logs: /var/logs/cloud-init-output.log
  cfn-init logs:  /var/logs/cfn-init.log  
    
---------

Termination Protection:-
  This simply a bool setting on stack and if enabled then aws will not allowed to delete this stack untill its disasbled again.   
  
--------

Error Handling:-
  By default entire stack will be rolled back. thoug you can change it and let all the resources retained.
  for this chnage the option at 'Rollback on failure' option while creating stack.
  For create If error occure you can 
    - 'Do_Nothing' and so keep the resources in broken state
    - 'Roll_Back' and so all the resources will be deleted.
    - 'Delete' and so delete all resoure and stack too.
  For update If error occure you can 
    - 'Do_Nothing' and so keep the resources in broken state
    - 'Roll_Back' and so all the previous working template will be re-deployed  
  
-----------------

Stack Policy:-
  You can use the stack policy to define if you do not wants to change/delete certain resource in the stack.
  By default there is no stack policy is set in the stack. In this case none of the resource are protected.
  If you set the satck policy the by default all the resources are protected. and you have to 'Allow' them explicitly.
  Typical statement:-

        "Effect" : "Allow | Deny",
        "Action" : "[Update:Modify, Update:Delete, Update:Replace, Update:*]",
        "Principal": "*",
        "Resource" : ['LogicalResourceId/ii1', 'LogicalResourceId/ii2', ..]
        "Conditions": []
  
  - Stack Policy comes into the picture for update operation only
  - Principal only suport '*'

--------------
Update Stack:-
  When we say Cloudformation is lime infrasturcture as code. 
  We know we keep making chages in code. but how underline infrascture cope with it.
  If you need to make changes in infrastruture then you need to first make the change in CF template.
  Then
  Either you can delete the existing stack and create new one with new template but this is impractical. for any small or big change if
  we keep deleting and re-creating the stack then whole system will be unstable.
      
  
  Change Set:
    Biggest risk of updating the stack is that you may mistakenly end up lossing couple of resources or change something unexpectadly
    To solve this comes a 'Change Set'
    This is nothing but way to look what resource will be impacted and how if you update the stack with new CFL template
    
      
   When you update the stack with new template then for each resource the CF will do one of the following
   - Replace the existing resource with new one if change in the template is as such
          EG: instance type of EC2 is changed from t2.micro to t2.small
   - Modify the existing resource if change in the template is as such
          EG: a new tag added to EC2
   - Add a new resource if there is one in template but not in stack
   - Delete the one if it is in stcak but not in template
