Suppose your organization haas many AWS account and region and your application is deployed in many Account and region.

The stack set provide the way to deploy the SIMILLAR stack in many region and account. 

IF you hava stack contain tresource like R1, R2 and R3. then you can create the instance of this stack in many account and region.
In each account R1, R2 and R3 will be created.
Its not like R1 will be create in us-east-1 and R2 in us-west-2

Administrator  Account:-
  A Administrator account is the account in which you create a stack set, This should be the organization's management account.
  This account must have service-likned IAM role which has permission ??????

Target Account:-
  This are the account in whic the Stack id created/updated or deleted by master account.
  This must create a trust relationship with master account
  You can select target accout by account id Or
  You can simple select the AWS OU id and all the meber account will be selected as target account.
  
Trust relationship between Administrator and Master account:-
  ?????
  
IAM roles: 
  If admin and target both are in same AWS Organization then you can either use self managed or service managed rule.
  If both are not same AWS Organization then you must use self managed role.

  Service manged: 
     Here the aws will create the necessary iam role for the the account (admin and targets) and yse them for operation.
  Slef managed:
     for admin you must have AWSCloudFormationStackSetAdministrationRole
     for target it must have AWSCloudFormationStackSetExecutionRole with principle as admin account id
    


Stack Set:-
  With stack set you can create the stack in diffrect account and region with 
    - A single cloudformation template
    - Same input values across all
    - Same Capability across all.
  A single stackset can have only one clouidformation template. 
  
Stack Instance:-
  A stack instance is a reference to a stack in a target account within a Region. 
  A stack instance can exist without a stack. For example, if the stack couldn't be created for some reason, the stack instance shows the reason for stack creation failure. 
  A stack instance is associated with only one stack set
  
 Stack Operation:
  You can do below operation on stack set
  Create :
    For this provide the cloudformation template.
    all the input param for stack. also the capabilities.
    The service role of admin account for this
    Either 
      list of all aws target account
      or Aws OU id
    Provide the list of regions to be deployed in
  
  Update:
    You can update the stack after creation.
    Update will affect all the stack instances. you can do it selectively.
    you can add delete update the resources in cloudformation template. or you can completely change the template
    you can change input params
    you can add more account or region.
      
  Delete stack instances:
    you can delete stack instances from specific region and account
    you Delete stacks from your stack set, but save them so they continue to run independently of your stack set by choosing the Retain Stacks option
  
  Delete StackSet:
    tou must first dlete all the stack instances to delete entire stackset  
  
  
  
