Web Application Firwwall:
  AWS WAF is the service to secure the HTTP or HTTPS expose compenent on layer 6 and 7.
  WAF can be used for 
    CDN
    ELB
    API Gateway
  You can create the rule to deny the accessto those resources based on filterinf by
    IP Addresss
    Query String param
    Originating country of request
    Size of request
    Header

Mechnics:-
  In WAF, you define the Web ACL. The Web ACL is a collection of rule or rule group.
  If any request pass all the STATMENTS of the RULES or Rule Group then attcached ACTION of that Web ACL will take place.
  This Actioncould be Allow, Block or Count.
  
  - A web ACL can connect to many AWS service.
  - A Web ACL can have multiple rule and each has a priority attached.
  - Each rule can have multiple Statement with AND/OR/NOT combunation.
  - Each rule can have one and only one action that could be Allow, Deny, Count

Components of WAF:-
  Web ACL:-
    The Web ACL is the packaged security configuration that is attacjale to AWS web exposed resources.
    You can attach it to ELB, CFT, API Gateway.
    Web acl is composed of number of rules that. The rqeust is analyzed by all the rule in the web ACL. Each rule has the proirity attach.
  
  Rules:-
    The rule are made of number of Statements and a Action. The statement analyze certain params in the request.
    This statment execute in form of al OR, or all AND or all NOT.
    
    Rule.Statements:-
      The statment can analyze
      - Country from where request generated
      - Set of IP in form if IP set [Further you can set if you need check IP of source of IP in header like X-Forw-Source]
      - Any pattern in REquest Methode, Header, QueryString, URL Path, Body
      - Any missing or prsent value in REquest Methode, Header, QueryString, URL Path, Body
      - Any suspicious prsence of SQL Injection or XSS Script in the Header, QueryString, URL Path, Body.
      
    Rule.Action:-
      Once all the Statment in Rule pass then the selcted Action will be taken place
      This action could be
      1. Allow
          Simply let the request pass through. also you can set to add certain header here.
      2. Deny
          Deny the request. Also you can set the custon resouce code and header too.
      3. Count
          Count the request and let it pass.
  
  Rule.Type:-
    Regular Rule:-
      Here the staemets are executed and action will be taken based on passed result for each request.
    Rate Based Rule:-
      Here also the statment are evaluated on each request but action will not be taken on that request instead the requests from a single IP address are allowed in a five-minute period. 
      This value is continually evaluated, and requests will be blocked once this limit is reached. The IP address is automatically unblocked after it falls below the limit
      - This is best to detect if certain IPs areconstantly try to overwhelm the server with lot of request in littile time.
      - You can set which IP is taken either source of Header.
      - You can set statment list to evaluate if request should be consider for counting or not.
      
      
  Rule Group:-
    This is the reusable group of rule that can be attached to any Web ACL.
    This is of 3 kind
    1. AWS managed
    2. AWS Marketplace Managed
    3. you own
 
  Charges:-
    There are no upfront commitments. AWS WAF charges.
    But you will be charged for 
      - Web ACL you create in WAF
      - Number of Rule in Web ACL
      - Number of request
  
  AWS Firewall Manager:-
    AWS Firewall Manager simplifies your administration and maintenance tasks across multiple accounts and resources for a variety of protections, including 
      AWS WAF, 
      AWS Shield Advanced, 
      Amazon VPC security groups, 
      AWS Network Firewall, 
      Route 53 Resolver DNS Firewall. 
    
    - With Firewall Manager, you set up your protections just once and the service automatically applies them across your accounts and resources, even as you add new resources.
    - Helps to protect resources across accounts
    - Helps to protect all resources of a particular type, such as all Amazon CloudFront distributions
    - Helps to protect all resources with specific tags
    - Automatically adds protection to resources that are added to your account
    - Allows you to subscribe all member accounts in an AWS Organizations organization to AWS Shield Advanced, and automatically subscribes new in-scope accounts that join the organization
    - Allows you to apply security group rules to all member accounts or specific subsets of accounts in an AWS Organizations organization, and automatically applies the rules to new in-scope accounts that join the organization



