There is multiple way to autheticate that if caller has valid request and has proper access. 
The choce is your that what level of security you wants.

Verify (not authenticate) if API is in correct form:-

  Verify if API caller has provided proper structure like body, header, query param
      This will check if the caller has proper params in the API. it does not verify if he has the access to that api or not.
      How:-
        at your  Api > Method Request 
          set 'URL Query String Parameters', 'HTTP Request Headers', 'Request Body'
      This is very basic level of check.



Authenticate the caller:-
  You can configure the authorizer in aws console and then can attach this authorizer to APIs.
  FOr this go to
  There are 3 way to authenticate if caller has access to API or not
  1. custom authorizer + Cognito user-pool
  2. AWS_IAM with Cognito id-pool
  3. custom authorizer
  
  
  1. custom authorizer + Cognito user-pool:-
    When you want to restrict the access of API only to the user who has valid id_token of the selected user-pool.
    So here in the api you have to pass the valid id_token.
    go to 
      Authorizers > Create 
      Choose Type = Cognito
      Select the user-pool of you choice.
      Type the key of Header param who has the id_token in 'Token Source'
      Done
    Now at the time of calling the caller has to provide the valid id_token and api getway take care if it is valid for the give user-pool
    if yes then the api get executed or else it fail.
    EG:-
      see 'getUsers-US pool' api in postman and provide the valid id_token in Authorization param.
      
      When to use it:-
        This approch is good when you wants to give the balncate access to all the user of certain user-pool.
        It say 'if caller has valid id_token then gothrough'
        Actully here the call is placed on behalf of certain AppClient that is registerd at cognito portal. The id token has 
        the information about on whose(AppClient) behalf this call took place.
      
      In above approch you give access to the user if it has the valid id_token
      Suppose you wants to write a IAM kind of access management where you write a policy for any authenticated cognito-user to tell
      if he has access to set of api or not.
      
      For this first you need to set the identity poll and then 
      Resources > your api > METHODE > Method Request
        in 'Authorization' select AWS_IAM
      Done
      
      Actully here the call is placed on behalf of cognito-user directly. you have to provide the identity of that cognito user 
      in form of Access key and Secret.
      
      
      At the time of calling first you have to generate the access-key and secret via id_token for given identity pool.
      once generated then we will call the api with the signature v 4 params with access-key and secret
      EG:-
        'getUsers-ID pool' in postman
    
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
