Why we need EPS:-
  Suppose mufazzal make a application that do certain task. now he wants other to use it.
  How?
  - He can simply setup a typical model of Load balancer and expose the system to Internet.
    What is drawbach here
      1. The Application is expose to internet so any body can use it and so Mufazzal cannot encash it (assume no user registration/login there)
      2. The biggest drawback: The consumer of this service must must allow their own system to connect to internet to consume Mufazzal's Service.
    Say a bank need this service but the bank say red bold NO to conecting their system to internet.
    So what mufazzal will do if he has created a Application but he wants to share it without internet?
    
    Here comes the 'End Point Service' :-
      In simple word the EPS is the wrapper around the Network Load Balancer.
      So first you hae to create a NLB, This NLB can be spread across multiple AZs (and subnet) 
      This NLB will have its own Target Group, ASG etc.
      
      Once NLB is ready you can use this NLB to create the EPS.
      To create EPS go to VPC > Endpont Service > Create
      - Select NLB [this will by default select the AZ and Subnet as the selected NLB has them attached]
      - Auto Acceptence: check if you wants to allow anyone to use your service, without your manual allowing process.
      Done.
      
      The EPS simply expose the NLB to the consumer whos is allowed to use the service (not to full internet).
      This EPS service will available only in those AZs which are coming with NLB (not in other AZ). 
      So consumer has to make sure he has to be in at least one of that AZ if he wants to consume.
      
      After that you will get the DNS name for that Service. This look like below
      'com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-03edf0bb1f6f09c9d'

      Now any one in this universe can use this DNS name to consume ur service.
      Suppose alex in USA wants to use this service
      Q. What Alex need to do?
      A. Alex need to creat the Endpoint and request Mufazzal to allow him to use the Service.
      
      Now How Alex will create the Endpoint?
      Alex will login to his AWS account and Go to VPC > End point
      1. Alex will Enter the DNS name of Mufazzal's service and search.
      2. Alex will Select VPC in which he wants consumption
      3. After Alex selected the VPC he will see the supported AZs
         This suppored AZs are super set of 'AZ of NLB of Mufazzal`s Service' and 'AZ of Alex`s VPC'
        3.1 In those supported AZ, Alex can select/unselect the AZ in which he wants to create the End point.
            for higher availability Alaex shoud select more then one AZ. [VVIMP: This does not effect access of endpoint in any unselected subnet/AZ]
      4. Alex will now choose the SG for this EP. 
      Done.
      
      Now AWs will send a request to Mufazzal saying, Het Alex wants to use ur service.
      once mufazzal accept. its status comes available for Alex.
            
      VVIMP: Though in creation of endpoint you select/unselect AZs, but it has no impact on which subnet/Az can use this EP and which cannot.
      This is only for higher availability purpose.
      VVIMP: does the choosed subnet need to have internet access (IGW attached) ?
      NO! becoz the traffic never leave the AWS ecosystem. this generate in VPC of alex and reach to Mufazzal's NLB via AWS backbon network.
      it never touches the iternet. So no IGW needed for Alex and mufazzal both.
      VVIMP: EP is created at VPC level (not at subnet level) so it can be use in any EC2 lying in any subnet of that VPC.
      
      Also its way too fast the typical internet.
      
      EP and background:-
        Actully when you create the EP, it will create the ENI in each subnet selected in step 3.1
        This ENI will never do not have public IP, this ENI simply connect the AWS backbone network and give getway to reach the Mufazzal's service.
       
 
 So via this set up Alex' VPC and Mufazzal's service can communicate without internet via AWS backbone.
---------------------
   Now surprise!
   Every AWS provided service is also have a affliated End point service.
   EG:
    SQS has the EPS 'com.amazonaws.us-east-1.sqs'
    SNS has the EPS 'com.amazonaws.us-east-1.sns'
    EC2 has the EPS 'com.amazonaws.us-east-1.ec2'
    RDS has the EPS 'com.amazonaws.us-east-1.RDS'
    ...
    ...
    S3  has the EPS 'com.amazonaws.us-east-1.S3'            ***
    dynamodb has the EPS 'com.amazonaws.us-east-1.dynamodb' ***
    
    *** Condition apply
    
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
