The next IMP building block come in VPC is subnet. Once tou craeted the VPC you can devide the VPC in another level of small private network
You can create as many subnet in a VPC you wants. The CIDR block you have selected for VPC will be shared among all those Subnet.

When you create the Subnet you have to provide below mandatory info:-
  1. The VPC id
  2. CIDR block
  
When you create Subnet with this two info it has
  - Default Route Table atached to it
  - Default NACL attached to it.

Subnet is of two type
  a.  Public Subnet: those who are connected to internet
  b.  Private Subnet: those who are not connected to internet

----------

Subnet Sharing:-
  You can share the Subnet across the AWS-Organization or Organization Unit.
  For this you first have to create the Resource sahre and add subnet in it. 
  The account that owns the VPC (owner) shares one or more subnets with other accounts (participants) that belong to the same organization from AWS Organizations
  
  Owner permissions:
    VPC owners are responsible for creating, managing and deleting all VPC-level resources
      subnets, route tables, network ACLs, peering connections, gateway endpoints, interface endpoints, 
      internet gateways, NAT gateways, virtual private gateways, and transit gateway attachments
    VPC owners cannot modify or delete participant resources
      SG, Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon RDS databases, and load balancers
    VPC owners can view the details for all the network interfaces, and the security groups.
  
  Participant permissions:
    Participants that are in a shared VPC are responsible for the creation, management and deletion of their resources including 
    Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon RDS databases, and load balancers
    Participants can view but not edit the details of the route tables, and network ACLs that are attached to the subnets shared with them
    
  - Owners cannot share subnets that are in a default VPC
  - Participants cannot launch resources using security groups that are owned by other participants that share the VPC, or the VPC owner
  - Owners cannot launch resources using security groups that are owned by other participants
  
    
