VPC Peering [VPC-to-VPC]:-
  with VPC peering you can conect two VPC, this VPC can be from diffrent account and region.
  This allow to do the bidirectional connectivity.
  To do this you have to first create the peering connection and then update rout table with proper CIDR of connction VPC.
  You may also need to update the SG of instances for allowing the traffic. 
  if both VPC in same region then you can reference a security group from the peer VPC as a source or destination for ingress or egress rules in your security group rules.
  
  - It does not rely on a separate piece of physical hardware. There is no single point of failure for communication or a bandwidth bottleneck
  - For inter or intra region peering, traffic between peering VPC remain in AWS backbone network 
  - By default, if instances on either side of a VPC address each other using a public DNS hostname, the hostname resolves to the instance's public IP address.
      To Change this just enable 'DNS hostname resolution' for peering connection. now it will resolve to private IPv4.
  
  This have some limitation
    - both VPC should not have overlapping CIDR
    - VPC peering is point-to-point connectivity, and it does not support transitive routing
    - There is a maximum limit of 125 peering connections per VPC
    - More the connection more the complexity will be
  Charges:
    VPC peering only incurs costs for traffic traveling over the connection (there is no hourly infrastructure fee). 
  You can peer VPC:-
    Form diffrent account or same account
    From diffrent region or same region
  Step:-
    At Requestee side: get id of VPC whom you wants to peer with    
    At Requester side: Accept the request in Peering connection
    At both: both of them must ensure that CIDR should not overlap
      both should modify their route table with peering id {vpcx-******} 
      
  Unicast reverse path forwarding:-
    This is not supported in VPC peerfing due o this the problem come in below scenario.
    You have 3 VPC. A, B, C. 
    Peering is  A<-->B and A<--->C
    So AB and AC do not have overlapping CIDR but BC can have the overlapping CIDR.
    In this case you have to take care that who will have the more precidence for routing the traffic to givec VPC.
    In rote table Higher pecidence will be given to highest Prefix match to the CIDR.
          
      
  VPC Peering VS Endpoint Service:-
    - VPC peering connect two VPC and allow communication from both direction
      EPS is connection between PRovider and Consumer. consumer can consume the exposed sevice of Provider. not vice versa.
    - Any service in both VPC will be exposed to each other by peering
      Only exposed service of provider will be accessible to consumer
    - If you wants to peer two VPC, they must not have overlapping CIDR block.
      CIDR overlapping doesn't matter  
  
Transit VPC:-
  The drawack of VPC-peering is to not to have the transic communication.
  To solve this issue comes a Transit VPC concpt.
  Here you have one central VPC (Hub) and other connected VPC (Spoke).
  The Hub need to have one EC2 running all the time with proper routing software to perform transit.
  This will bear the cost of running EC2.
  
VPN[VPC-to-site]:-
  VPG is used for buinding a VPN netwprk between VPC and ur on-premise infra.
  When you set this up you will be able to use the private IPs of your VPC components and on-premise component in each other.
  for creating VPN connction betwen VPC and site you need below item
  
  At site:-
    1. Customer gateway device: A physical device or software application on your side of the Site-to-Site VPN connection
    2. Create 'Customer gateway' at aws console and attach it to the VPC.
  At AWS
    Ask this two thing from Networks adminstrator of on=premise side
      1. CIDR of ypur on-premise network.
      2. Public IP of your on premise Router
      Now create Virtual private gateway or Transit gateway with this two thing. This will stand at AWS side and reprsent the On-Premise.
  Funally:-
    Map both of the two thing you made and create 'VPN Connection'
    to create it
    1. Select the Customer gateway
    2. select the Virtual private gateway
    3. give full CIDR of complete network
    DONE
  After creation:-
    Once created you can see
    there is two IPSeC channel created fot higher availibilty and each chanel has a Public IP attach to it.
    No via this channel you can communicate between the components of bothe side with their private IP
  
  VPN Charges:-
    You will be charged for 
    1. Till the vpn connection is active, For each hour you will be charged.
    2. First GB of data transfer is free then its chargable.
  
  
    
    
    
    
  
VPN Clodhub:-
  When you have single site-data-center the connecting it with VPC is easy 
  but if you have multiple data center and wants transit communication with each other too the VPN cloudhib is very useful
    
  
Transit Gateway:-
  This help you build your network Topology. As you know VPC can hae many connection like
    VPC peering with 100s of VPC
    Direct Connect with many on-premise
    VPN connection with many on-premise
  The TG will help you to build this with ease
      
   
Direct Connect:-
  The direct connect give you a dadicated fiber connection between ur premise and nearest AWs Hub.
  This is highly costly and you need to work with one of AWs network partner. 
  This give you very low latency fpr connecting to AWS from ur premise. 
  you can connect any AWS public service like S3, DynamoDB or your private network like VPC with direct connect.
