Internet Getway:-
  Internet getway provide the internet access to all internal Nodes of VPC.

  Internet Getway perform two IMP task for two diffrent kind of Node:-
    For Node with public IPv4:-
      Work as NAT (Network Address Trasnslator) for Node with Public IPv4 
    For Node without public IPv4:-
      Use rote table to route the internet traffic to the destination node.

  Suppose there is a node that has the public IPv4
    EG: EC2 with IPv4 Enable, RDS with IPv4, NAT Getway
    say the reserved public IP is 87.9.8.7
      Inboud traffic:-
        Say mufazzal Hussain wants to run a API '87.9.8.7/getUsers' from his domain/PC/localhost.
        In that case the request will reach the internet getway and the IG will see its NAT table (not rout table) to get the exact instance that has this IP.
      Outbound traffic:-
        For all such node this work as intermediatory to redirct the response of the request(generated from inside the node) to proper node     

    Suppose there is a node that do not has the public IPv4
      Inboud traffic:-
        Impossible. no one from internet can reach to a node who do not has the public IPv4
      Outbound traffic:-
        For all such node this work as intermediatory to redirct the response of the request(generated from inside the node) to proper node 
  
    - Basically all the internet traffic flow from IG.
    - It does not cause availability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network traffic
    - There's no additional charge for having an internet gateway in your account

Egress only IGW:-
  IF your VPC is using IPv6 then. there is one issue here. the IPv6 do not distiguish between public and private IP. all ip are public in IPv6.
  For this comes the Egress-only IGW. This will allow the internet bound IPv6 request generated from the VPC to flow out to internet 
  but IPV6 request generated from the internet to the VPC is prohibited.
  So Egress only IGW work as NAT gateway for IPv6. 

  Can a VPC have mutiple IG
  ?????????/

  IG and Route Table:-
    By default any route table do not redirect any internally generated internet traffic to the IG.
    to do this you have to add this entry in Rout Table
      0.0.0.0./0  - igw-*******
    This entry will route the traffic to the internet getway.  
  
NAT Getway:-
    What if the Node in the private subnet wants something from internet? What if they wants to update their OS or patches. 
    Or some computing instance wants to acceess an API from internet? To solve this comes a 'NAT Getway'               
    So In nutshell-
      NAT Getway do not allow any InBound comunication initiated from the Public Internet.
      NAT Getway only allow the OutBound communication intiated from withine the subnet

  What you required to create an NAT Getway and Attach it: 
    1. A Public Subnet
        NAT Getway do provide the one-way-initiated public internet access to private Subnet, but the 'NAT Getway' itself 
        reside in the Public Subnet.
    2. A Elastic IP:-
        You must have a EIP to attach to the NAT getway.
          
  NAT Getway and Route Table:-
    By default any route table do not redirect any internally generated internet traffic to the NAT Getway.
      to do this you have to add this entry in Rout Table
        0.0.0.0./0  - nat-*******
      This entry will route the traffic generated in assosiated subnet into to the NAT getway.      
           
  - One NAT Getway can be attached to many route table and so can handle traffic from many Subnets at a time.
  - NAT gateways are not supported for IPv6 traffic—use an outbound-only (egress-only) internet gateway instead
  - The natgetway by default have 5GBPS bandwith but can scaled up to 45 Gbps, So many instances in many private subnet may share this bandwith for nternet access.
  - NAT Getway is chargable, u will be charged for per hour basis. its generally at $0.1 / hr
  - Though NAT Gateway has EIP but, you can nott attach the SG on it. it also has an private IP allocated from the subnet where it reside. 
  - You can associate exactly one Elastic IP address with a NAT gateway. You cannot disassociate an Elastic IP address from a NAT gateway after it's created. To use a different Elastic IP, you must create another one.
  - You cannot route traffic to a NAT gateway through a 
      VPC peering connection, 
      Site-to-Site VPN connection, 
      AWS Direct Connect. 
    A NAT gateway cannot be used by resources on the other side of these connections

  Natgetway Performance and Scalling:-
    it can scaled up to 45 Gbps but
    If you have multiple private subnet and they all access the internet via single NAT getway, then it may leads to high traffic on it and risk of single point of failure.
    To avoid this its good pactice to have one NAT getway for each private subnet.
  
  Charges:-
    You will be charged hourly for the up time of NAT gateway. you will also bear the charges for data processing.
    
  TIP:- If your private subnet need only to talk inside the VPC and wuth the AWS services then its better to use the Endpoint Service for AWS services to avoid the use of NAT gateway  

---------------
  
To access the public internet you must need an Publip IP. 
  - In case in IGW, instance has it
  - In case in NAT, the NAT gateway has it  
  
---------------
 
 NAT Instances:-
  This is the predecessor in NAT Getway. The NAT instance is simply an EC2 instance with publc IPv4.
  This work 100% same as NAT Getway except it cannot scale and developer has to take care of instance management.
  It must lies in the public subnet and src and destination check of EC2 myst be disabled.
  
---------------  
  
 Bastion host
  this is nothing but a ec2 instance sitting in public subnet and used to do ssh into the insurances in private subnet
  from the internet you first need to ssh in the bastion host and then into the private instance.
  

 Bastion host vs NAT getway
  NG used for accessing internet from private subnet instance
  Bastion used for sshing from the internet to private subnet instances
