A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them using private IPv4 addresses or IPv6 addresses. 
Instances in either VPC can communicate with each other as if they are within the same network

You can peer VPC:-
  Form diffrent account or same account
  From diffrent region or same region
  
- It does not rely on a separate piece of physical hardware. There is no single point of failure for communication or a bandwidth bottleneck
- For inter or intra region peering, traffic between peering VPC remain in AWS backbone network 
- If both VPC in same region then you can reference a security group from the peer VPC as a source or destination for ingress or egress rules in your security group rules.

DNS hostname resolution:-
  By default, if instances on either side of a VPC address each other using a public DNS hostname, the hostname resolves to the instance's public IP address.
  To Change this just enable 'DNS hostname resolution' for peering connection. now it will resolve to private IPv4.
  If you do not enable it then the traafic will flow from internet via IGW or NGW for public DNS hostname(not private IP).
  Both VPCs must be enabled for DNS hostnames and DNS resolution.

Use Case:-
  This is most useful when you want communication betwwen the 
  Intsnces/RDS/Lambda residing in private or public subnet
  In two VPC(in same/diffrent account/region) 
  Over the AWS backone network 
  Via Private IP
  Without need of VPN/IGW/NGW.

This have some limitation
  - both VPC should not have overlapping CIDR
  - VPC peering is point-to-point connectivity, and it does not support transitive routing
  - There is a maximum limit of 125 peering connections per VPC
  - More the connection more the complexity will be
Charges:
  VPC peering only incurs costs for traffic traveling over the connection (there is no hourly infrastructure fee). 

Step:-
  At Requestee side: get id of VPC whom you wants to peer with    
  At Requester side: Accept the request in Peering connection
  At both:  both of them must ensure that CIDR should not overlap
            both should modify their route table with peering id {vpcx-******} 
                The RT of both side should have a entry appear like below
                <CIDR of A>  pcx-AB
                and 
                <CIDR of B>  pcx-AB
            if needded they must also update their NACL and SG to allow traffic flow over peering CIDR range.
                For Inbound and Outbound rule 
                if vpc are in same region 
                  they can refer each others SG via <AWSAccounId>/<SG-Id> 
                if not then 
                  you have to use the CIDR of couterpart VPC. 
              
Inter-Region VPC:-
  - An inter-region peering request must be accepted in the region of the accepter VPC
  - You cannot refer the SG of peered inter-region VPC in SG rules.
  - Charges of inter-region data transfer will apply.

Unicast reverse path forwarding:-
  This is not supported in VPC peerfing due o this the problem come in below scenario.
  You have 3 VPC. A, B, C. 
  Peering is  A<-->B and A<--->C
  So AB and AC do not have overlapping CIDR but BC can have the overlapping CIDR.
  In this case you have to take care that who will have the more precidence for routing the traffic to givec VPC.
  In rote table Higher pecidence will be given to highest Prefix match to the CIDR.

Below connection/Reosource/Edges can not be used in peered VPCs:-
  - AWS Direct connect
  - VPN connection
  - IGW
  - NGW
  - Gatway VPC endpoint foe S3 and DDB

VPC Peering VS Endpoint Service:-
  - VPC peering connect two VPC and allow communication from both direction
    EPS is connection between PRovider and Consumer. consumer can consume the exposed sevice of Provider. not vice versa.
  - Any service in both VPC will be exposed to each other by peering
    Only exposed service of provider will be accessible to consumer
  - If you wants to peer two VPC, they must not have overlapping CIDR block.
    CIDR overlapping doesn't matter  
