Security Group:-
  SG is as you know a security wrapper around any component(EC2 or RDS or ENI) which has the capability to reach and rechable to any other newtwork component.
  See EC2 - SG.txt for detail.
  
NACL (Network Access Control List):-
  The NACL is very much like a SG of a Subnet.
  The NACL control what kind of traffic on which port is allowed or denied.
  One Subnet can be attached to only one NACL but one NACL can be assosiated with many subnet.
  The NACL is wrapped aroud the Subnet so that this. NACL now control what type of Traffice can move in and out of that SUBNET.
  
  If EC2 lies in any subnet then traffic first has to pass out from NACL test and then SG of EC2 will be tested. if both pass then traffice pass through.
  Any trafiic prohibited by NACL will not reach to SG and further network comp at all.
  
  Just like EC2 in NACL we also set in and out bound rule
  Below param you need to crete the inbound rule  
    Rule - Protocol  - Port Range  - Source   -  Allow / Deny
    100     HTTP         80          0.0.0.0/0       Allow 
    200     HTTPS        443         0.0.0.0/0       Allow 
    300     SSH          22          45.7.8.5        Allow 
  Below param you need to crete the outbound rule  
    Rule - Protocol  - Port Range  - Source  - Allow / Deny
    100     HTTP         80           0.0.0.0/0       Allow 
    100     HTTPS        443          0.0.0.0/0       Allow 

  How Rule evaluated:-
    The rule with lower number will evaluate first and keep going till
      - the matching rule come
      - or denied

  When you craete A VPC it will also create a Default NACL created.
    This NACL simply has one entery
      100   -   ALL Traffic  -   ALL  -   ALL   -   0.0.0.0/0   -   ALLOW
    This NACL has all traffic of all type (from internet or inside VPC) open for in and outbound


one subnet can only connect with one NACL
but one NACL can be connected to multiple subnet
So its relation is like below
                                Subnet 1      
        NACL 1---------------   Subnet 2
                                Subnet 3  

But not like
    
        NACL 1------------
        NACL 2------------  Subnet 1
        NACL 3------------

NACL VS SG:-
  The SG us statful and NACL is stateless.
  This means that NACL work at packet level and SG work at Request level.
  
 if a SG has allwoed the request from point A to Point B then the response flow from B to A will automatically granted access.
 But if NACL allwoed the request from point A to Point B then the response flow from B to A can be denied.
 
 SG do not have any way to specifically deny any source or destination IP but NACL can do this.
 
 By default all traffic is deny by SG, you have to go and allow it.
 
 The inbound/outbound rule of SG state that who can initiate the request 
  - if he can then the reverse response will be permitted automatically
 The inbound/outbound rule of NACL state that in which direction the packed can flow
  - if he can flow in one direction then still the reverse response can be allowed or denied
