Your VPC has an implicit router, and you use route tables to control where network traffic is directed. 
Each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a route table, which controls the routing for the subnet (subnet route table)
The routing table is simplly a table which has entery of IP or CIDR against the Node. 
It is actully a master table for all the routing decision happen in Subnet.

When you craete A VPC it will also create a Default Route Table.
  This route table simply has one default unchangable entery
    10.0.0.0/16   - 	local - 	active	
  Which mns all the internal private IP will be routed to anf from internam components of that VPC. Every route table has this entry and it cannot be changed or deleted.
  This also mean that route table make sure each component in each sunbnet can reach to each other component in other subnet.
  route table can never stop it. though u can stop one node to reach to other via DG or NACL.
  The value 16 can be very depend on the CiDR range of the VPC. Also the internet traffic will be cutted off completely.


  one subnet can only connect with one route table
  but one route table can be connected to multiple subnet
  So its relation is like below

                                Subnet 1      
        Routing Table--------   Subnet 2
                                Subnet 3  

      But not like

              RT 1------------
              RT 2------------  Subnet 1
              RT 3------------

The entries in Route Table contains 2 main values that define the routing mechanism. one is the IP CIDR range and other is The destination.
The destination could be
  - A Internet getway
  - local [VPC Router]
  - NAT Getway
  - EC2 instance
  - Virtual Private Getway
  - Network Interface
  - Transit Getway
Any IP falling in that CIDR range will be routed to the given destination.  
  
  Generally it has below entries
    10.0.0.0/16	                Local                       -> The default unchangable entry, this make sure that all the IP of type 10.0.***.*** remain inside the selected VPC
    0.0.0.0/0                   <select Internet Getway>    -> If you choose internet getway here then those CIDR block will be redirected to pulic internet
    0.0.0.0/0                   <select NAT Getway>          -> This also enable internet Access but at intiatlted from internal sided only  

Any newly create route table will have at least one entry that is
10.0.0.0/16	                Local  
You cannot delete it or edit it.

  What is minimum and Maximum possible CIDR block for an Subnet
  ???????????/
  
