This define on what condition the instances will be launched or taken down. The desired Capacity ofASG is controlled via thia policy
  There is below way to do it, There is 3 kind of policy
    1. Target Tracking
      - You set a target say 70% CPU usage and ASG take care of adding/removing instances to acive this target.
      There are 4 preconfigured matrics which you can use for this
          ASGAverageCPUUtilization, ASGAverageNetworkIn, ASGAverageNetworkOut, ALBRequestCountPerTarget
      you can use those to gauge the number of EC2 in group wrt targer value.
      For this you do not need to set any cloudwatch metrics bu you own.      

      Thoug, You can use other or custom cloudwatch metrics too for Target tracking.
      EG: You can scal up or down based on number on messages in SQS.

    2. Simple Scalling
      - You set a usage value, above wich n number of instance will be launched.
        the value of 'n' you have to gave. also you need to set the cloudwatch metrics that will be use for this 
    3. Step Scalling
      - You set the spans of uasges and set how many instance will be launched or taken down if usage is in respective range.
        also you need to set the cloudwatch metrics that will be use for this. 
    4. SQS based scalling:-
          See SQS.txt for this.

----------------
  Multiple Scalling Policy:-
    You can use more then one Scalling policy in Dynamic Scalling. You can use use 
      - more then one for scale in 
      - more then one for scale out 
      - diffrent policy for scale in and out
    In any case if two policy insist for two diffrent value of capacity then the one who give large number of capacity will will.
-------------------

Cooldown Priode:-
  This is specifically use for Sinmple Scaling only. it cannot be ised with any other.
  A scaling cooldown helps you prevent your Auto Scaling group from launching or terminating additional instances before the effects of previous activities are visible.
  This help you to prevent the launch of additional capacity or termination of extra capacity before effect of last Scalling activity took place.
  This can be set at ASG level or can ne override in Scalling policy.
  
