You can configure the ASG to launche the Instance  of diffrent instance type with diffrent purchasing model. 
This help ypu reduce the cost signoficaltly
With this you ca
  - Use Spot instances
  - Utilize the Reserve capacity
  - Utilize Saving plane

Set Up:-
  When you create the ASG, you gve the proper LT. All the commom param will be taken from this LT.
  But you can ovveride some param in the tamplate with below options:
  Instance types: 
    You can chosse multiple instace type here. this types will ovride the Instance type in LT. 
    You can also assign weight to each instance type. High-end Instance can have higher weight in capacity.
    You can also set the Priority of instance [in console the priority is in order of the list ]
    EG:-
      #   Type         Weight 
      1   t2.small     1  
      2   t2.large     3
      3   t2.xlarge    4    
    Here the priority with be 1,2,3 and weight are 1,3,4.
  On-Demand base capacity:-
    Specify how much On-Demand capacity must be there. This value make sure that you will have certain fixed capacity always up which is independent of spot price and inturuption
  On-Demand percentage above base:
    Once 'On-Demand base capacity' is fufilled via On-Demand, this value define what will be the propotion of Spot and On-Demand instances for additional capacity. 
  Spot allocation strategy per Availability Zone
    Which allocation stratagy must be used for capacity fullfiling via Spot Instabnces. 
    it could be 'Capacity-Optimized' or 'lowest-price'
  Maximum price for your Spot Instances:
    This is optional. By default this is same as On-Demand price of given instance type. But you can adjust it for your budget constraint.
    
  Capacity rebalance
    ??????????????????????
    
  Instance Pool Calculation:-
    totl pool = total type of instance-type * total selected subnet. 
    
    
  Allocation Stratagy for On-Demand:-
    There is only one stratagy here and that is 'prioritized'. So the one who has higest priority will be launched first.
  Allocation Stratagy for On-Demand:-
    There is two option here:
      Capacity-Optimized: The instances will be lanched from the pool which has the higest availibility and lowest chances of inturuption.
        This is useful when cost of restarting the instance is higher.
      lowest-price: The instances will be launched from the pool which gave you least price. This have the higher chance of inturuption.
        
      
  
 
