Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling helps you ensure that you have the correct number of Amazon EC2 instances available to handle the load for your application
It has 3 main component
  1. Auto scalling Group:-
      Define MAx, Min and desired capacity.
  2. Launch Template(LT) or Launch Configuration(LC):-
      Define how a indivisual instance look. also what will be the purchase model.
  3. Scalling Policy:-
      Define scalling based on event (Dynamic) or schedule.
     
  
Benefits:
  Better fault tolerance: 
      Replace unhealthy instances with new one.
  Availibility:    
    Span to multiple AZ for better availibility
    
    
Scaling Event:-  
  Scalling Out: ASG will LAUNCH new instances if
    - You manually increase the size of the group
    - Scalling policy can cause it to maintain its poolicy value
    - Scalling Schedule can cause it.
    
    The isntance launch based on LC/LT. 
    New Instance first remain in 'Pending' state. 
      Here also the LAUNCHING lifcycle Hook ran. and state change to 'Pending:Wait'
      Then it pass through ELB/EC2 Healthcheck
    Then instance passed into 'InService' state.

  Scalling In: ASG will TERMINATE the running instances if
    - You manually decrease the size of the group
    - Scalling policy can cause it to maintain its poolicy value
    - Scalling Schedule can cause it.
    
    ASG use its 'Termination Policy' to find out which instance should be terminate first.
    Those instance goes in 'Terminating' state.
      Those instance are now detached and shutting down
      Here also the TERMINATING lifcycle Hook ran. and state change to 'Terminating:Wait
      
  
StandBy Instance:-
  You can temporarily place the instance in 'InService' to 'StandBy'.
  This enable you to perform some maintainance operation on EC2. but kept that EC2 in the ASG as well.
  Once you mainatainance dome Exit the standby.
  
  
Limits:-
  Launch configurations per Region: 200
  Auto Scaling groups per Region: 200
  Scaling policies per Auto Scaling group: 50
  SNS topics per Auto Scaling group: 10


LC VS LT:-
  AWS recommend to use the LT instead of LC because
    - LT can have multiple version and you do not have to change the ASG if you make any chnages in LT. In LC you have to modify the ASG because.
    - With LT you can use both On-Demand and Spot instance in your ASG. with LC you can only one pricing model at a time.
    - With LT you can use multiple instance type in you ASG with LC its not possible.
    - With LT you can also use Volume Tagging, elastic inference, Dedicated Hosts.
    - In single ASG you can use multiple LT but only one LC.
    
    You can copy the LC into the LT. 
    You can change the ASG to use LT instead of LC. 
      
  
  
  
