Why wwe need it :-
  Say you have a EC2s running on version1 of code and nw you wants to upgrade the version to next
  What you will do
  1. you have to stop the App or stop the EC2 if it is Blue/Greem deployment
  2. Now also ou have to configure the LB(if any) to not to sent traffic to in-deployment Ec2s
  2. now you have to login to instances of EC2 with proper user
  3. Now you have to upload the new code 
  4. Now you have to make chages in the configuration if needed and run some script if needed.
  5. Now you have start the App.
  6. Now you may also run a script for health check
  
The code deploy help the user to automate the above process of deploying.   


Application:-
  A name that uniquely identifies the application you want to deploy. You have to set the compute platform for the Application.
  The setting of Deployment configurations and Deployment group depends on the Compute platform
  It is a wrapper aroud the
    Revisions, 
    Deployment configurations, 
    Deployment group
    
 Copute Platform:-  
  EC2/On-Premises:  
    Set how the traffic will be routed to instances in cloud or on-premise while the deployment.
  AWS Lambda:
    Set how the traffic will be shifter to new lambda version
  ECS:
    You can manage the way in which traffic is shifted to the updated task set during a deployment

  Deployment group:-
    The deployment group contains settings and configurations used during the deployment.
    An application can have multiple DPG. You can have diffrent DEPG fro diffrent env like
    App1
      |
      |---depg_prod
      |---depg_dev
    Most deployment group settings depend on the compute platform used by your application.
    But some are the common among all the compute platform like rollbacks, triggers, and alarms
    
  Deployment group > Deployment type:-
    It could be one of
    In-Place: 
      Only EC2 support it. not other including On-Premise. The appliocation is installed in same EC2 instance. 
      Old app will be ininstalled and deleted and new one will be downloaded and installed.
    Blue/Green:-
      Its defination vary according to Application Platform
      EC2:  
        New revision will be installed on new instances
        Traffic shifted from old to new instances and finally older instances will be killed.
      Lambda:
        Traffic is shifted from your current serverless environment to one with your updated Lambda function versions
      ECS:
        Traffic is shifted from the task set with the original version of an application in an Amazon ECS service to a replacement task set in the same service
        
  Deployment group > Deployment configuration:-
    this is the set of rule for the deployment and condition for faillure and success for the codedeploy to use.
    Its setting is again Compute Platform dependednt
    EC2:-
      This define how many instances shuld go for deploymnet at a time and when the succees and fail will be considered.
      It apply for BG and In-place both kind of deployment.
    Lambda:
      This specify how traffic is routed during a deployment.
        It could be Linear, Caranary, AllAtOnce
    ECS:
      This specify how traffic is routed during a deployment.
        It could be Linear, Caranary, AllAtOnce        
      
      
      
      
