The task defination is the ready-to-run template that can be ran in any ECS cluster as a standalone task or in a service.
The task defination contains below information:-
  
  Capabilty Requirments:-
    This tells weather the task can be ran on which kind of host EC2, Fargate or Extarnal. mutiple are possible.
  
  Compute power:-
    Memory size:-
      The total size of RAM you need for this task. this will be futher dole uot to in-running containers.
      For EC2 type Host this is optional. You can specify here at Task-level or at Container-level
      For FArgate it is required.
    CPU:-
      The total size of vCPU you need for this task. this will be futher dole uot to in-running containers
      For EC2 type Host this is optional. For FArgate it is required.

  NetworkMode:-
    The task can be ran in diffrent network mode. it could be awsvpc, bridge, host, none.
    - Fargate only support awsvpc
    - for 'none' there will be no external connectivity for Containers in this task.
    - awsvpc and host give the higehest performance. 
  
  Roles:-
    There are two role you set in here
    1. ExecutionRole:-
        When the task is instantiated via sercice or stand alone task, then this role is assumed by the ECS agent to perform operations.
    2. TaskRole
        This is the role assumed by the All Containers intantiated when the task ran started running via service or standalone task.
  
  Family:
    Use this to create the logial group of all the containers in this task.
  
  Storage related:-
    EphemeralStorage: 
      This is the storage accesible till task ran. Simply give how much GB you need
    Volumes:
      You can mout EFS, FSX, Docker Volume to all the containers in this task. This is persistent storage
 
 TaskDefinitionPlacementConstraint:-
    define weather the task can be placed on EC2 or not via 'Cluster query language'
  
  Containers:-
    You can add the list of containers images here with each image you also need to give
    - Image Name: 
        From public docker repo or from ECR
    - Cpu:-
        Set the Cpu allocation this container can have.
        For Fargate, It is optional.
        For EC2 ????
    - Memory: 
        Set the memory this container can have. if RAM goes above then container will be killed.
        For Fargate, It is optional.
        For EC2 it is optional. You can specify here at Task-level or at Container-level
          If you specify both then Sum of All Containres-level-Memory  < Task level-Memory
        Docker reserve munumum 4MiB of memory for each container.  
    
    - Environment:
        Use this to set the Enviorment variable in Container. Its a Key value pair.
    
    - Essential:
        If true, the if somhow this container fails or stop then all the other container whos are part of this task will also be stopped. 
    - LogConfiguration:
        Use this for setting logging config. Set the driver and its related setting here.
    - MountPoints:
        Define the mountpoint where the Volume (if mentioned) in the task will be mounted. 
    - Name: Name for this Container
    
    - Privileged: if contaier need root access on host machine
    - RepositoryCredentials: used for private repositery auth.
    - ResourceRequirements: set if you need some other resurce like GPU
    - WorkingDirectory: The working directory to run commands inside the container in
       
    - Port Mapping:
        It will have information about how the host and container port will be mapped. Its values are depend on network configuration
        Container Port:-
          No matter what network config you use, you have to define the exposed port of container in 'Container Port' field.
        Host Port:-
          Its value can be left empty or filled and it will be interpret depend on the nework mode field.
          
      If NetworkMode=none
          You cannot specify the port mapping
      If NetworkMode=bridge
          Host and Container(Exposed port) can have same or diffrent non-zero port number if you wants to use the static port maping
          Container will have exposed port number and Host port must have '0' port number if you wants to use the dynamic port maping          
      If NetworkMode=awsvpc or host
          Leave the Host port blank or fill the same value as Container Port
-----------------

Task:-
  The Task defination is the template its not an actual runong entity.
  To run it you must create the taskout of task defination
  It can be created as
  - A standalone task
  - A service to run task


