PRovision CApicity:-
   This is used to configure hom much dat can be write or read per second. This value should be chosse on the basis of
   how much user uses the DDB table at a given time and what is the pattern of usage.
   You can set it at the time of table creation or later when created already.
   For new table , its at first form only
   for exisying table  AWS > DDB > table > 'your table' > capacity.
   Some fundamental:- 
     In DDB you generally write data in the cell and the data containg of couple of Attribute with keys.
     Now first thing you have to figure out is to answer this 4 question
       A. How much the size of your each data item that you are going to read and write.
       B. How many read operation you need to do in a second
       C. How many wtrite operation you do in a second
       D. You need Eventually-consistent read or Strongly-consistent read 
     This is solely depend on your app load.

   There is two way to set them
   1. Pre assigned (with auto scalling if you wants)		   
         Now when you were create the table in AWS console, you can see a calculator to calculate the provision there.
         fill all four value there and you will see 3 numbers in output
          1. The read capacity unit you need 
          2. The write capacity unit you need
          3. The cost you are going to bear for this.
            - So if size your data is large you have to provision higher capascity and have to bear higher cost.
            - If you have lot of data read operation then give higher capacity to read and lesser to write and vise-versa
            - Strongly consistent read will bear the higher cost.
        Now what will happen if suddenly load increase for any read or write operation, For this you set the 
        Auto-Scalling for read:-
          Simply set if to allot minimum   <MNMNMN> unit 
          for read capacity anf if utilization goes above   <PPPP> percentage 
          then add  one more unit and keep it going till the allotment reach to       <MXMXMX> unit
          After that let the thing crash or performance dipped.

        Auto-Scalling for write:-
          Simply set if to allot minimum   <MNMNMN> unit 
          for write capacity anf if utilization goes above   <PPPP> percentage  
          then add  one more unit and keep it going till the allotment reach to       <MXMXMX> unit
          After that let the thing crash or performance dipped.

   2. On demand
      This is new and the best one. just enbale it and you do not need to set anything . AWS will take care of all things.


  PRovision	VS On demand:
    PRovision is best if you know the traffic pattern and load on the DB because you can  proviosn capacity and pay less.
    On demand if you do not know the traffic pattern and load on the DB and also your app is new in market so you belive low traffic.
    
-------------------    
    
