  Read Replica:-
    Suppose in your app you see at a time there is only 5 write operation but 500 read operations. So lot of read but very few write
    If you have only one DB answering all of those then there may be lot of leg.
    For this comes a read replica.
    Here you craete a additinal databases which are remain in synch with its master database.
    The write operation will happen on master db and later those changes will be synch up with other read replica.
    This feature reduced the time for reading data too much.
    Though the read replica could remain few minute behind of master data. So developer has to be careful
    it may be possible that data written on master may not be available immidiety on read replica
    
    Actully read replica in itslef a complete standalone DB instance execpt it is remain sych with master.
    In your app, you can connect with master or replica DB. both have their diffrent endpoint.
    But you should use master for write and replica for read.
    
    IMP Notes : 
    - All read replica have diffrent DNS endpoint, so in theory they are completely diffrent and independent DB.
    - You can have a RR of RR DB [but letecy will be low]
    - Data transfer in same region is free. but if replica is in diffrent region then its chargable.
    
    Cross Region Replication:-   
      You can create read replica in diffrent region. But here data transfer will e chargable. 
    
    Read Replica vs Multi AZ :-
      In multi AZ, the prime and sec has 0 leg. data written on prime will also reflect on sec and then operation suppose to be completed.
      In read replica, the write happen on master and operaton marker as done. after some time those changes will be transmitted to all read replicas.
    
    How-
      1. Aws > RDS > instance > check 'mufdb' > modify > create Read Replica 
      2. now set all values, this is just like creating a new standalone DB actully, name it say 'muf_1_DbReplica'
      3. Done
      
      Now in the app you should do write operation on endpoint of 'mufdb' and for read you can use any of 'muf_#_DbReplica'.
      for good prformance one should create multiple readreplica in diffrent AZ to keep.
      
    
    Read Replica VS Multi AZ:
      AZ is for disaster recovery and High Availibility. Read replica is for performance boost
      AZ is synchronus [both update and then OK] and Read replica is asynchronus [primery update then OK then secondry after some time]
    

------------

  IOPS:-
    Instead of General purpose SSD use the PRovisioned IOPS SSD. which will give higher IOPS perfprmance.
    You can cahnge it on the fly but the DB will face the down time.
    Better if you do in in maintainace window and best if you have the Multi-AZ available so app will not be impacted much.
    
    When you select the Provisioned IOPS as SSD then you also havre to set the value of IOPS/second you are going to need.
    This much IOPS will be allocated to you for that instances even though you use it to full capacity or not.

-----------

  Compute:-
      You can change the DB instance class, You have option to choose when this change must apply
      either immidatly or at maintainance window.
      FOr this scalling opertation there will be an downtime.
      In Single AZ DB the downtime is large.
      IN Multi AZ its minimal, becoz the secondy on frst fail and updated, second now act as prime and then prime start updating
      Changing DB instance class is straighforward, you just have to know about its impact.  
  
-----------

  In a running DB you can change below items for performance and scale tuning:-
    - DB Engin version
    - Instance class
    - Storage allocation
    - Storage type
    - Multi AZ
    
    You can schedule the changes for maintainance window or apply immediatly.
    Remeber it may bear some Downtime and this downtime will be minimal if DB is Muti-AZ.
    Be it in maintainace window or immediatly, for Multi AZ, 
        > changes will be applied to Stadby first and then 
        > failover happen and so standby become primary and the
        > primary got updated.
    
    IMP:-
      DB engine level chages:- 
        In this case the primary and secondry both will be updated in same time and even in Mlti-AZ you will have significan Downtime.
---------------

Storage Autoscalling:-
  You can enable the autoscalling of storage at time of creation or later via modify button.
  If it is enabled then your storage will be anuomatically increase in case of less sapce left.
  If you enable this then you also need to set up the value of 'Maximum storage threshold'. 
  The Sutoscalling will increase the storage once storage reach near to 'Maximum storage threshold'. 
  
------------------

RDS + MYSql best prctices:-
  1. Use InnoDB for DB ingine not MyAISM
  2. Keep each table size < 16 TB
  
--------------

- To reduce the cost you can use Reserve instance also. But you cannot use Saving plan with RDS.
  
  


