 Automated-back-up:-
  Here you will set two imp things
  Backup Window:-
    The time window when the back up should be taken. EG: 24 hour
  Retenstion priode:-
    How long you wants to keep the back up. EG: 35 days
     EG: Take back up after every 24 hour and keep this back up file for next 35 days.
  Cross-Region Automated backups:-
    You can do the automated back up at diifrent AWS region for DR.
  
   The snapshot of the back up will be shown at 
   RDS > snapshot
   you can see the type of the snapshot will be 'Automated'

 Restoring from back up :-
  1. for this simply select the DB > Action > restore point in time.
  2. Select time 
  3. choose DB identifier [must and should be non existubg one]
  4. chose other thing
  5. Done

  IMP: 
    - When back up is in progress then at that time DB will face some IOPS leg because backup process consume IOPS.
       This higher in case of Single-AZ. In case of Multi-AZ the automated back up is taken from Standby instabce.       
       
--------

Snapshot:-
  Other way to take the back up is via snap shot. This is totally manual process for backing up.
  to take it :-
    1. for this simply select the DB > Action > take snapshot
    2. type name
    3. save
    You will be able to see the snap in 'snapshot' page
   Restore :-
    1. got to snapshot
    2. Action > restore
    3. choose DB identifier [must and should be non existubg one]
    4. chose other thing
    5. Done

---------
Copy Operation:-
  You can copy the Automated or Manual snapshot to same or other AWS region.

Sharing Operation:-
  You can share only Manual snapshot not automated one.

--------
Snapshot vs Automated-back-up :-
  Simillarity - 
    1. Both are way to take back up and restore
    2. Whenever  you restore the DB from snapshot or from Automated-back-up, the process is very same
       and in both the DNS endpoint get changes. you have to choose the other identifier.
       So orignal.bala.blabal.aws.com  may changed to   snappy.bla.bla.aws.com
    3. For both of them the snapshot of back up will be visible at 'snapshot' page
    5. Both can be copied to create another snapshot in same or other region
   Diffrence :-
    1.  in Automated-back-up the back time and retention is configured, after that taking back is totally automatic proceess
        in snapshot you take a snap whenever you need. so here backing up is not automated with time
    2. The type of snapshot will ne 'manual' for one and 'automated' for other.
    3. Only Manual snapshot can be shared with other account not automated one.
    
--------

 Point-in-time recovery:-
    Point-in-time recovery (PITR) is the process of restoring a database to the state it was in at a specified date and time.
    When automated backups are turned on for your DB instance, Amazon RDS automatically performs a full daily Incremental snapshot of your data. 
    The snapshot occurs during your preferred backup window. and this snap are saved till max of 35 days.
    It also captures transaction logs to Amazon S3 every 5 minutes (as updates to your DB instance are made). 
    Archiving the transaction logs is an important part of your DR process and PITR. When you initiate a point-in-time recovery, 
    transactional logs are applied to the most appropriate daily backup in order to restore your DB instance to the specific requested time  
      
    So Point-in-time recovery is possible for max number of days for which you retain your automated back up.
    
-------------------

Creating DB from Snapshot:-
  In console just select the DB snapshot at time of creation of DB.
  In cloudformation provide 'DBSnapshotIdentifier' in RDS resource.


    
