STG is very useful for building the hybrid cloud where you keep your compute capasity in on-premise and storage or back up at AWS.

Storage gateway is the service build over the S3 to provide ready to use storage solution for your on-premise compute system.

The storage Gateway can cutomize the S3 sevice to provide you storage of belw type
  1. File Gateway
  2. Volume Gateway
    2.1 Stored Volme
    2.2 Cached Volume
  3. Tape Gateway
  
  To use the STG the first thing you need to do is to install the STG virtual machine in your on premise.
  This machine should also contain the storage at on-premise (How much? it depends upon you requirment) 
  
  File Gateway:-
    Its a file-based storage to your on premise solution. 
    File gateway provide you the NFS or SMB kind of file storage which is backed up by S3. The storage gateway take care of all the implementation between NFS client and S3.
    With this you can add/edit/delete any file with NFS client. this cahnges will be done on S3 actully. data is stored in S3 so you can have versioning, lifecycle, analytics from S3.
    With this you do not have to have large storage at your premise.
    Files written to a file share become objects in Amazon S3, with the path as the key. 
    There is a one-to-one mapping between files and objects, and the gateway asynchronously updates the objects in Amazon S3 as you change the files
    You can even access the files with s3 api and s3 console.

  Volume Gateway:-  
    This give Block-Based storage to your on premise solution. Here data is stored in S3 in form of EBS snapshot. 
    You can attach storage gateway as simple Hard disk in your computer,
    The on-premise STG storage is connected to on premise compute capacity with ISCSI protocol. (simply a hardisk drive)
    you can use two stratagy here.
    you cannot access this data with s3 api or s4 console.
    2.1  Stored Volume [live data in premise and backup at S3] :-
      Use on-premise as db and s3 as back up.
      Here you keep all the data set at your on premise(storage attach to STG virtual machine) but save the back up at S3 too. 
      The storage gateway take care of taking the back up from time to time. The back up of datset at on-premise is taken in form of EBS snapshot.
      This gives low latency for entire data set.
    2.2  Cached Volume [Cached data in premise and live + backup at S3] :-
      Use S3 as primary db and on-premise as cache.
      Here you keep all the data set at S3 but keep the recently accessed file at on-premise(storage attach to STG virtual machine). 
      Storage GAteway store all the data in S3 as volume storage. STG himself take care how he maniuplate the S3(which is object based) as Bolck based.
      This gives low latency for recelntly accessed but high for non frequently accessed one. 
      
  Tape Getway:-
    Tape Gateway offers a durable, cost-effective solution to archive your data in the AWS Cloud.
    This will archive the data in Glacier or Glacier Deep Archive
    
    
    
  Direct Connect VS STG VS DataSynch:-
    Direct connect is a dadicated connection between ur premise and AWS. This will proved ultra low latancy between any on-premise system and AWS system.
    STG is solution for hybrid solution where u keed compute on-premise and storage(for back up or back up + live both) at AWS
    Data synch is used for data migration from on-premise to AES.
  
  
