ELB automatically distributes your incoming traffic across multiple targets, such as EC2 instances, containers, and IP addresses, in one or more Availability Zones. 
It monitors the health of its registered targets, and routes traffic only to the healthy targets.

There is 3 kind of this
  - Application Load Balancers, 
  - Network Load Balancers, 
  - Gateway Load Balancers, 
  - Classic Load Balancers  

Think of ELB as the point where you recive and accept the traffic from internet or inside aws and then forwrd this traffic to the point of your choose.

LB has below component common among any type
  1. Listener:-
      Listeners check the incoming traffic to the LB on Port and Protocol.
      Each listener have coulpe of listener rule that specify on which TARGET to route the traffic bsed on specified CONDITION in that rule. 
      A LB can have the Multiple Listener.
  2. Target Group 
      The target group routes requests to one or more registered targets, such as EC2 instances, using the protocol and port number that you specify.
      TG is attached to any particular Listener as default action or at any Listener Rule.
      The listener route the traffic to port of this TG via specified protocol.
      
  4. SG:-
      The LB has the SG attach which allowinbound and outbound traffic for source and destination. 
      Here you open the port and protocol of LB for incoming traffic and
      allow flow of traffic at outbound for targets.
      There is two SG comes in the picture when we use LB and EC2 as RG.
      SG of ELB:-
        Must allow client(the end user) to connect on ELBport and ELBprotocol on INBOUND.
        Must allow OUTBOUD connection[for traffic and Health check port/protocol] from ELB to 'SGs of EC2' or 'IPs of EC2'
        INBOUND
          0.0.0.0/0     ELBPort1          ELBProtocol1     
          0.0.0.0/0     ELBPort2          ELBProtocol2           
        OUTBOUND
          SG1 of EC2    TG1Port           TG1Protocol  
          SG1 of EC2    TG1HealthPort     TG1Healthrotocol  
          SG2 of EC2    TG2Port           TG2Protocol  
          SG2 of EC2    TG2HealthPort     TG2Healthrotocol  
        
      SG of EC2:-
        Must allow 'SG of ELB' to connect over the TGPort and TGProtocol of EC2s.
        Must allow 'SG of ELB' to connect over the Health Port and Protocol of EC2s.
    AZ:-
      When you create the ALB, You must specify The AZ. Ror this you also have to select the one subnet from that AZ. 
      LB will forward the traffic to that AZ only. so any target leave outside those AZs will not receve the traffic even though he is registered in targt group.
      In case of ALB:
          You have to select the Two Subnet, and each from diffrent AZ.      
        
---------------------------------------------

  Flow:-
    The Client go to url <ELBProtocol>:<DNS of ELB>:<ELBPort>
    he request reach to the ELB
    ELB get its Listener and detemine which lister will honour the request for ELBProtocol and ELBPort
    Now Listener will get it RULES in order of their PRIORITY.
    It check the CONDITION in each RULE and the first one who matches will be chossed.
    Now the traffic will be forwarded to TARGET of that chossed RULE 
    Now target will handle the traffic at TGPort and TGProtocol.    

------------------------------------------------
  
 X-Forwarded-** Header:
   This is applicable for ALB only not for NLB.
   When ALB redirect the traffic to other target like EC2 or url, the designated target will take the ALB as source
   so the IP, port and protocol he receive is of ALB
   Then how could the destination will know the Ip, port and protocol of orognal client
   For this the ALB add three extra header in request
      X-Forwarded-For
      X-Forwarded-Proto
      X-Forwarded-Port
  This three will have informarion about how the client connected to the ALB
  
-------------------------------

Cookies reserved by LB:-
  AWSALB, AWSALBAPP, or AWSALBTG
  
-------------------------------

LB and ENI: 
  just like an ec2 the networking unit of LB is ENI. The SG of LB is also attached to that ENI.
  if LB can span to N number of AZ then it will have N number of ENI. Also each ENI will have an Pivate IPv4 attached to it.

  For internet-facing load balancers. It will have
      - A Private IP and Private Routable DNS name. addresses are assigned from the subnet CIDR 
      - A Public IP and Public Routable DNS name. addresses of the nodes are assigned by AWS

  For internal load balancers, It will have
      - A Private IP and Private Routable DNS name. addresses are assigned from the subnet CIDR    
  
  Incase of ALB: 
    The ALB always need at least two subnet each in diffrent AZ. so it at least has 2 ENI in diffrent AZ.
    Also The Public/Private IP assign to ALB ENIs are suseptible to change overtime so its good idea if you use the DNS name.
-------------------------------
LB - Traget - AZ relations:-
  When you create the LB you first select the AZ where the LB will work. in background AWS place an ENI in each AZ(actully in selected subnet of AZ) you selected.
  It may be possiblr that target group spread over AZ1, AZ2, AZ3 and AZ4. But LB is attached in az1 and az2 only.
  in that case even though target group has instances running in AZ3 and AZ4 and LB has this target group listening still LB will 
  not be able to route any traffic to instances in AZ3, AZ4.
  ALB route traffic equally in all the AZ and after that this traffic is distributed in targets.
  
---------------

Cross-region load balancing:-
  As you know LB sent thetraffic to multiple AZ. and TG is spread oer many AZ.
  When LB sent the traffic to AZ and then to TG. it may be possible some AZ has more instances then other.
  EG:-
    say AZ1 has 8 EC2 of TG1
    and AZ2 has 2 EC2 of TG2
    The LB will send 50% traffic to AZ1 and 50% to AZ2. so 8 EC2 of AZ1 will have 50/8 = 6.25% and 2 EC2 of AZ2 has 50/2 = 25% traffic.
    to resolve this comes the cross-region balancing.
    if its enable then LB will send 100/10 = 10% traffic to each EC2 across the both AZ. 
    Actully in the background LB-node [ENI of LB in AZ2] in AZ2 send prpotional traffic to AZ1
  For ALB this enable by default. for other two you have to enable it.
  
----------------------------------

