The volume is actual Hard disk in the system. 
You can create volume either from snapshot or without it.
The Volume is ready-to-attach hardisk device that can be attach to Ec2. 

EC2 region and Volume Region:-
  Both of them are created in AZ of your choice. both of them must lies in same AZ otherwise there will be hell of the latancy

Root-Volume:-
  When you create a EC2 the root volume will automatically be created. you can though change it if wants.

Creating Volume:-
  you can create the volume with below choices
  1. AZ: where you wants to create it. remember you will be able attach this volume to only EC2s which lie in this AZ.
  2. EBS-Snap: if you wants you can choose the snapshot to get the initial data.
  3. Type
  4. Size
  5. Encryption
When you create a volume but do no attah it to any EC2 it like you buy a Hard disk but not attachh it to Computer.
You will be charged for allocating EBS wrt its type and storage. 

Changing Volume configuration:-
  you can dynamically increase size, modify the provisioned IOPS capacity, and change volume type on live production volumes.
  You do not even have to detach the volume ot stop the instance
  If you increase the size of volume then you may also have to make OS aware of new storage.

Attaching Volume:-
  For attaching you will need below things-
    1. the volume id: The volume that you wants to attach.
    2. Instance Id: the instance on which you wants to attach. it must be from same AZ
    3. Device:-
        The device is the mount point where the HDD will be mounted. this is like the entry point for this disk.
        The list of avialable mount points are at
          https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/device_naming.html
        most of the AMI we use are HVM(not PV) and attached HDD are EBS (not instance store) so the range of device mapping are
        /dev/sd[f-p]
        For root device the resrved lovcation are generally
        /dev/sda1 or /dev/xvda
        But it could vary by AMI type.
      - EBS volume can be attach on the running instances.

  Detaching Volume:-
      If ES device is root then you first have to stop the instance then detach it.
      if it is non root then you do not have to stop theinstance

Limitation on EBS volume Size:-
  Therotically you can have 16TIB of volume size. but this varies depending on
  1. Service limitations
  2. Partitioning schemes
  3. Data block sizes

On EC2 termination: 
  The root EBS device is by default deleted.
  But any other EBS device will not be deleted by default.

Encryption:-
  You can choose to encrypt the volume at time of creation.
  - Not all the instance type can support the Encryption of EBS. So if you wants to encrypt the volume, it must be attached to proper Instance. 
  - Encryption happen into the instance and with the data key created via CMK. and data key lies in the EBS itself.
  - Wnen you attach the encrypted volume to instance then instance send th 'Decrypt' command to amazom KMS
  When you encrypt the volume then
    > Data in the volume at rest will be encrypted
    > Data in transit to and from EBS and instance will be encrypted
    > Snapsot created from this volume is encrypted [Though you can change the CMK/DEfault Key] 
    > Volume created from that snap is also encrypted [Though you can change the CMK/DEfault Key]
  Encryption Key: You can use either
    - Default EBs key created for your AWS account 'alias/aws/ebs'
    - Create your own master key as CMK    
  Modifying Encryption setting of volume:-
    Once volume is create with or without encryption, it cannot be changed.
    Though you can create new Snapshot with desired encryption from orignal volume and then create new volume from created encrypted snapshot.
    Remember, if you change the CMK for newly created volume then complete new 

Multi Attach Enable Volume:-
  There is way to anable the multi attach so that we can attach the single EBS to multiple EC2.
  - Multi-Attach is supported exclusively on Provisioned IOPS SSD volumes.
  - Multi-Attach is available in the following Regions only:
    volumes—us-east-2, eu-central-1, and ap-south-1, us-east-1, us-west-2, eu-west-1, and ap-northeast-2.
  - Multi-Attach enabled volumes can't be created as boot volumes
  - You can't enable or disable Multi-Attach after volume creation.
  -	You can't change the volume type, size, or Provisioned IOPS of a Multi-Attach enabled volume.

Monitoring:-
  Performance metrics:
    such as bandwidth, throughput, latency, and average queue length is free in cloudwatch.	
  Status checks:
    This are automated tests that run every 5 minutes and return a pass or fail status. 
    OK:                 If all checks pass, the status of the volume is ok. 
    Impaired:           If a check fails, the status of the volume is impaired. 
    insufficient-data:  If the status is insufficient-data, the checks may still be in progress on the volume. 
    You can view the results of volume status checks to identify any impaired volumes and take any necessary actions.

