The EBS is like a Hard disk device attach to the EC2. This is Raw formatted BLOCK STORAGE. 
The EBS is the Memory attached to the EC@ at extremly nearest location.
The EBS can be used (without any alternative) for installing OS, DB, Software on EC2 machine.
An EBS can be attach to ant EC2 that lie in same AZ only. 
becoz it need to have extremly low latency between EC2 processer and Physical EBS device.
EBs is very useful in system where you need lot of read and write(by throughput) on certain DB or filesystem.

Features:-
  1. Data Redundency: Behind the scene AWs replicated the EBS to diffrent hardwares(In same AZ) in case one component failed for improved data redundency
  2. In live enviormet you can change below properties of EBS whithot detaching from instance
      Storage type, Storage size, IOPS capacity.
  3. Encryption: This is well integrated with KMS for encryption at rest. 

Why not S3:-
  S3 is suitable for storing objects. and it have way to low throuhput and high latency when compare to EBS.

Type of EBS :-
  1. SSD
      1.1 GP2 : General Purpos SSD:- 
          balanced price, good performance
          Best for : general purpose, Virtual desktops, System boot volumes, Development and test environments
      1.2 IO1 : Provisioned IOPS SSD:- 
          Highest performance, High price
          Best for: mission-critical, low latancy and high throuput work. best for main DB's of your app
   2. Megnetic
      2.1  ST1 :  Throughput optimize 
            Low cost - frequently accessed
            Usage: Streaming workloads requiring consistent, fast throughput at a low price
            EG. Big data, Data warehouses, Log processing
     2.2   SC1 :  Cold HDD  
            Lowest cost - less frequently accessed 
            Best for file server.	
     2.3 	 EBS Magnetic:
              Legacy

    IMP:-
      SC1 and EBS Magnetic cannot be used as root device. 

    #							GP2								IO1						ST1									SC1
    IOPS					3 to 16000 IOPS		64000 IOPS		500IOPS
    Throughput		250MiB/sec				1000MiB/sec		500MiB/sec
    Multi-attach	No								Yes or No			No	

