You can take the snapshot of any Attached EBS-volume at any point of time. The snapshot is just a bit-by-bit copy of 
attached volume. this copied file then stored in S3 with some special formate.
The snapshot will just preserve the state of EBS at the point of taking the snap.
  - The snapshot are stored in S3(in the same region) but can be viewed in Ec2 > Snapshots.
  - You cannot view snap in the S3 console or by AWS S3 api. so you cannot use the snap as like object in s3.
     This is managed by AWS itself not by user.
  - To take snap of Root device , You have to stop it first
  - You cannot create the Snapshot from Hibernated instance- 
  - Although you can take a snapshot of a volume while a previous snapshot of that volume is in the pending status, 
    but it can result in reduced volume performance until the snapshots complete
  
  
  Source Volume Encryption and Snapshot:-
    If source volume is encrypted then the snapshot will also be encrypted with same CMK.
    If source volume is unencrypted then the snapshot will also be unencrypted. Though you can create a copy of snap and encrypt it.
    
  Snapshot Encryption and Target Volume:-
    If Snapshot is encrypted then target volume will also be encrypted with same CMK  
    If Snapshot is unencrypted then target volume could be unencrypted or encrypted.  
  
  EBS Snapshot and Region:-
    You can create the napshot from the EBS-Volume, from EC2 itself or from another EBS-snapshot. 
    The snapshot created from those will stored in S3 and avilable to the region of its creator device(EC2, Volume, EBS-snap).
    Now you can create the volume from that newly created snapshot in any AZ of that region.
    Though you cannot create the volume in another region from this snapshot.
    How to do cross region EBS replicatiion:-
      For this you first has to copy the snapshot in another region first then use the copied snap to create the EBS-Volume.

  snapshots are incremental:-
    It means that each time you create a snapshot of a volume t any point of time. the delta changes in the data
    will be allocated to new memory. rest of the data which are same as previous snaps are actully refered to those 
    previous snap only.
    See at https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSSnapshots.html#how_snapshots_work

  Creating Volune from Snapshot:-
    - You can create the Volume in from the Snapshot in the same region where snapshot lies.
    - You can create volune in any AZ but in same region.
    - Volumes created from snapshots load lazily in the background. 
        so there is no need to wait for all of the data to transfer from S3 to your volume before the instance can start accessing an attached volume and all its data
        so in start you may face some latency in IO. Volume performance is achieved after all blocks are downloaded and written to the volume
    - If snapshot were encrypted then created volume will also be encrypted.
    - If snapshot were unencrypted then created volume could be encrypted or unencrypted.

  Multi Volume Snapshot:-
    You can create the snapshot of all the atached EBS volume of an Instance. You can then manage them collectivly.
    If any one snapshot for the volume set fails, all of the other snapshots display an error status

  Deleting the Snapshot:-
    - Snapshot are incremental so deleted snapshot may not remove all the data instaed data rtefer by other older snap will be retain. 
        data refect exclusivly by this snap only will be deleted.
    - You can create, retain, and delete snapshots manually, or you can use Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager to manage your snapshots for you
    - You can't delete a snapshot of the root device of an EBS volume used by a registered AMI. You must first deregister the AMI before you can delete the snapshot
        
  Copy Snapshot:-
    You can copy the snapshot in and out of the region. Remember
    - If account and region both are same then no actual data is copied.
    - If orignal snap is Encrypted then the copied must also be encrypted however you can change the CMK for copied one. 
    - If you change the Encryption setting of copied snapshot then a complete Non-incremental copy of snapshot will be created.  
    - If you copy the snapshot to new region then it could be
        Increamental if all below condition are met
          > The snapshot was copied to the destination Region or account previously
          > The most recent snapshot copy still exists in the destination Region or account
          > All copies of the snapshot in the destination Region or account are either unencrypted or were encrypted using the same CMK
        Or Completely new otherwise 
       
  Sharing Snapshot:-
    Share with specific AWS Account:-
      - You can share the the snapshot with specific aws account. those user can create the Volume from that Snap.
        If the snap is encrypted then you also have to share the CMK.
      - You cannot share the snap that are created with default CMK.
    Share with Public:-
      - You can share the snap publically too. 
      - You cannot share the encrypted snap publically
        
  Fast SnapShot Restore:-
    When you create the volume from snapshot, it is lazily loaded. so you may face latency in begining when you read data from volume for first time.
    to resolve this you can Enable the 'Fast SnapShot Restore' for specific AZs.
    Volumes that are created using fast snapshot restore instantly deliver all of their provisioned performance immedietly.
    When you create a volume from one of these snapshots in one of its enabled Availability Zones, the volume is restored using fast snapshot restore.
    You can enable the 'Fast SnapShot Restore' in multiple AZ for a given snapshot
  
EBS-Snapshot VS Volume:-
  The EBS-Snapshot is the photo or bit-by-bit copy of volume at a time of taking that snap. This is stored in S3 but managed in Ec2.
  The Volume is the real hard-distk device that either attached toEc2 or ready-to-attached to EC2.
