You can use Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager to automate the creation, retention, and deletion of EBS snapshots and EBS-backed AMIs. 
When you automate snapshot and AMI management, it helps you to
  - Protect valuable data by enforcing a regular backup schedule.
  - Create standardized AMIs that can be refreshed at regular intervals.
  - Retain backups as required by auditors or internal compliance.
  - Reduce storage costs by deleting outdated backups.

A lifecycle policy consists of these core settings:
  Policy type:-
    Defines the type of resources that the policy can manage. It could be
      1. Snapshot       lifecycle policy:   Used to automate the lifecycle of EBS snapshots.  These policies can target EBS volumes and instances
      1. EBS-backed AMI lifecycle policy:   Used to automate the lifecycle of EBS-backed AMI. These policies can target instances only
  Resource type:-
    It could be 'INSTANCE' or 'VOLUME'. 
    If it is INSTANCE then the policy will generate the Multi-Volume snapshot. otherwise it will be simple snaphot.
  Target tags:-
    The TAG of the resource on which this policy will be applied. So if you want to manage back up of any Instance or Volume with this Policy 
    then you must attach those tag to that instance and volume.
  Schedules: 
    The start time and interval for creating the back ups. It must have one mandatory interval with three optional one.
    With Multiple schedule in single policy, you can create snapshot daily, weekly, mothly etc. and you no longer has to have multiple policy.
    Each schedule can define its own fast snapshot restore settings (snapshot lifecycle policies only), cross-Region copy rules, and tags(not Target Tag but tag that will be attached to created AMI/Snap). 
  Retention:-
    Specifies how snapshots or AMIs are to be retained. You can retain snapshots or AMIs based either on their total count (count-based), or their age (age-based)
  Enable cross Region copy: 
    Applicable only for AMI lifecycle policy. You also copy the newly created AMI via this policy up to 3 region.
  Enable cross-account sharing:-
    Applicable only for Snapshot lifecycle policy. If you enable it then you should provide AWS account id of targated account.
    You must also provode the CMK permission if snap is encrypted.
    
 - Initiaing backup on schedule time may have up to 1 hour of delay.
 - If you remove the tag from policy then instances/volume with those tag will no longer be managed with this policy.
 
