Creating Alarm will need below item to set
Related to Metrics:-
  - Metric
  - Dimension
  - Statistics [Average, Min, max, Average, Sum, count]
  - Priode: you specify priode on which the CW collect The 1 data point.    
Related Alarm to bell:-
  Condition:-
    There are two kind of condition. you can use one of them
    1. Math based:
        If the metric is greater, less then som thrashold.
    2. Anamoly detection
        If the metric is in between or belo or above certain band.
  Evolution Priode:-
    The number of data point that should be conside for evaluating the alarm state.
  Datapoints to alarm:-
    Number of Data point that must be breached in the frame of 'Evolution Priode'
  Missinge Data:-
    In case in any priode the data point is not avialabe then you can treat this miss as:
      - MAintain alarm state
      - Breach
      - No Breach
  EG:-
    Priode = 1 mnt
    Evolution Priode = 5 
    Datapoints to alarm = 3
    So The CW will create a Data point in each 1 mnt. After every 5 data point alarm state will be evaluated.
      Now if number of Breached data point >= 'Datapoints to alarm' then simply put the alarm in Ring state otherwise let it remain OK.  

Related to Action That you wants to take:-
  Based on CW, You can create the specific action to be taken id Alarm is on.
  CW is nativly integrated with 3 AWs service and so can take action on those
  1. SNS: CW can send notification to the SNS topic
  2. EC2: CW can directlt start, Stop, Terminate or Reboot the instance without needing any lambda.
  3. ASG: CW can take some action on Auto scalling group too directly.
    Actions for EC2
      stop, terminate, reboot, and recover
    Action for ASG
  4. Rum an SSM System Manager Automation doc.
  
-------------------

Alarm states:-
 At a moment alarm could be one from this 3 state
 OK
 ALARM
 INSUFFICIENT_DATA.
 
 When alarm is just created it intially remain in 'INSUFFICIENT_DATA' state as data is not thier to evaluate.
 Once data is avialable then metrics will be either
 in the ALRM state if thrashold is broken
 othermise in OK state. It can move from OK to ALARM or ALARM to OK all the time.
 
 
 
 


IMP: Lambda is not directrly integrated with Lambda. you have to use it woith SNS.
