Just like the EBS is a Physical HDD for storage
The ENI is Physical device for Networking.

ENI (Elastic Network Interface):-
  The ENI is a NEtwork Card in the VPC that is attached to instances running in the VPC.
  The ENI is the main part for networking in EC2.
  The ENI establish the rule and rechability of EC2.
  By default when you create the EC2 a primary ENI is also created and attached to that EC2.
    - the SG you attach to EC2 is actully apply at the Primary ENI created in scope of that EC2. 
    - the IPs (public and private) is actully apply at the Primary ENI created in scope of that EC2. 
    
 Creating ENI:-   
   Though you can attach the additional ENI in the EC2 if you need ore complex Networking operations. 
   You can create and configure network interfaces in your account and attach them to instances in your VPC
  
 Monitoring IP traffic
  Simply enable VPC flow log on your network interface and then you can see monitered data in cloudwatch
 
Private IPv4 and ENI:-
  By default ENI has one private IPv4 address attached to it. but you can assosiate more IPv4 address from the CIDR of the VPC.

Public IPv4 and ENI:-
  The default primary ENI can have a public IP assigned antomatically if subknet allow it.
  Later you can assosiate more public IP address to the ENI.

  When you creat an EC2 by default a single ENI device is attached to that EC2. This ENI device will give following service to EC2
    - One public IPv4 address (if allowed)
    - One or more private IPv4 addresses from the CIDR range of your VPC
    - A MAC address
    - One or more security groups
  
  
  Use cases:-
    The MAnagemant networ:-
      You can create a additional ENI which will allow the traffic inside the VPC and by SSH only and let primary ENI gave allower the traffic from internet.
      So you can have better secured network syste.
      So just create ENI with proper SG and with private IPv4 (no need of public IPv4) and attach it to EC2.
      Now use the IP from secondry ENI for management tasks.
    For failover:-
      Have a secodry ENI for traffic. now in case the EC2 failed then simply detach and re-attach the secndory ENI to standby EC2.
      
If my EC2 is doing lot of networking task then should i add more and more ENI:-
  No! the ENI is the building block for Logical Network building. it should not be us for more throuhghput. for this use EN.
  
  
  Assosiating IPs:-
    You can assosiate additional private IP to the ENI and for each private IP you can also map a public IP via Elastic IP. 
  
-----------------------------------------


EN: Enhanced network:-
  The EN provide you better network throughput. you can enable or disable it on EC2.
  This provide higher bandwidth, higher packet-per-second .
  
  This is of two type-
    1. ENA: Enhanced Network Interface - provide up to 100 GBps
    2. VF: Virtual function - provide up to 10 GBps

-------------------

EFA: Elastic file adapter:-
  This is useful for ultra high throughput like machine lerning or Big data



