Pricing-
On Demand:
	You pay by usage/hour or per second
	Best For -
		If you do not need any long term contract
		Low Cost
		Short live application
		
	On-Demand Capacity Reservations:-
		If you wants to make sure that you will have some capacity always avaialble to use. you can use this.
		Here the charges per hour will be aplied as per on-Demand price. unlike 'Reseved instance' you do not have to go to a long term contract of 1 or 3 year.
		you can cancel it any time if you no longer need it.
		This is very useful if you wants to make sure that you will surely have a instance for small priode of time
		On-damnd capacity can be reserved with below param
		- Number of instances
		- AZ, Type, Tanancy, Platfors 
		
Reserved:
    You reserve the capasity for a certain time (for a 1 yera to 100s of year).
    You are locked in a contract. AWS generally provide yuo discount if you contract for longer time. You also need to pay some amount upfront.
    This is not a special type of in stance oinstead its just a Discoup applied on bill if below criterion matched
			- User has purchased th reserved capacity
			- The region and instance type of purchased capacity matched the region and instance type of Instance type. 
		Best For -
      App that need steady and predictable usages (So you calculate the computing power well in advance, so pay upfront in advance and get good discount from AWS)
		Pricing:-
			There thre model here
			All Upfront: 			Once paid fully, you wont be charged for using it at all.
			Partial Upfront: 	You pay partial ammount and then you will be charged  with discounted rate for each hour for remaing priode. no matter you are using instance or not. 
			No Upfront: 		You pay full ammount and then you will be charged  with discounted rate for each hour for remaing priode. no matter you are using instance or not. 
		Factor for price determination:-
			1. Instance type(or family)
			2. Region
			3. Tenancy
			4. Platform(Linux/windows)
		Terms:-
			1 or 3 yesr. it does not renew automatically. instead you will start bearing charges for On-Demand
		Offering Class:-
			There is two class here
			1. Standard:-
						Here you can modify the instance but can not convert it
			2. Convertible:-
						Here you can modify and convert the instance.
						
		Regional and Zonal Instance:-
			In regional you have flexibility fir changing AZ and zonal you need select AZ and that cannot be nodified later.
			
		Limit:-
			Max Regional-instance you can reserve = 20
			Max Zonal-instance per AZ you can reserve = 20
		Reserved instance Marketplace:-
			This is like a secondry market of RI. If in case you no longed need the instance then you can sell them here.
		
		Modifing the instace:-
			once purchased you can change some param of the capacity like
			-	Instance Size in same instance Type(family), EG you can chage t2.micro to t2.small or t2.large etc. but cannot chage it to m2.micro. 
			- AZ
			You can also modify a reservation to divide it into two or more reservations. 
			EG: t2.medium instance (2 units). You can divide the reservation into two reservations, 1 * t2.nano instances (.5 units) and 3 * t2.micro instances (1.5 units).
			Below items are not mioifiable, this are all the item that factor into the pricing
				1. Instance type(or family)
				2. Region
				3. Tenancy
				4. Platform(Linux/windows)

		Converting the instance:-
			This will cost you higher but this gave you flexibilty to excahnge the instance with diffrent set of
				1. Instance type(or family)
				2. Tenancy
				3. Platform(Linux/windows)
			Below are the rules:-
				- both the isntaces must be from same region
				- Convertible Reserved Instances can only be exchanged for other Convertible Reserved Instances.
				- You can exchange ONE OR MORE Convertible Reserved Instances at a time for ONLY ONE Convertible Reserved Instance only
				- Total value of instance to be exchange must be  <= 	Total value of new instances for exchange [You can go high or atesame but not low in price scale] 
			
				
Spot:
      AWS most of the time have spare capacity inntheir data center and so after fulfilling all on demand request remaing hardware is available for spot.
      this instances are available at spot price to highest bidder.
      remember that if demand increase then aws can take back the allocated instance.
      This work like a biding in stock market, you bid for a any instacne with many others. 
      The best one get the deal, and if sombody again ready to pay more then you lose (after some agreed time) this instance.
      Best For:-
         Me: Hey! i want to do this task its kind of R and D, but it will take fair computing power so buy some Ec2. no specific strat or end time required
         Finance: We do not have much money for R and D. 
         Me: Ok! lets go to Spot pricing, when it cost low buy some, work on it, release if it get costly, and  keep doing it at very low cost.
         Finance: smart guy.
    To get the Spot instance you must set request with below items
       1. Max price
       2. no of instances
       3. type   on-time | persistent. if you wants to lanuch only at once or you wants repetative launch on favourable price.
       4. Launch config
       5. valid from - to
    Spot Inturuption:-
      1. if demand of on-denmand instances are higher then aws can immediately terminatethe instance and take it back
            in this case you do not hve to pay for partial hour
      2. if ur bidded price is lesser then current spot price then your instance will be terminated after full hoir passed 
		Interruption behaviors:
			There is 3 way to handle the inturruption
			1. Terminate: This is by default and it terminate the iunstance.
			2. Stop: 
					- For this EC2-Fleet requets must be 'Maintain' and Spot requets must be 'Persistent'
					- Root volunme should be EBS not instance store.
			3. Hibernate:-
					- For this EC2-Fleet requets must be 'Maintain' and Spot requets must be 'Persistent'
					- Root volunme should be EBS not instance store.
		Handling Inturuption:-
			AWS send you two kind of signal (simply a cloudwatch alarm) if their is chances of or surity of inturution
			1. Rebalance Recommendation:-
					Whenever their is chances of inturruption, The AWS system sent the Cloudwatch Event to the Amazon EventBridge.
					Also it set some specific values in instance meta data. You can use this event to rebalance the capacity. 
					like launching new instance or saving data.
					Use below filter for such kind of Event-
							{		"source": [ "aws.ec2" ],
									"detail-type": [ "EC2 Instance Rebalance Recommendation" ]
							}
			2. Inturuption Notice:-
					When its sure that instance going to inturuptted, the AWS emit Event which can be detected in Cloudwatch Event (Event bridge).
					You can use this event to do the necessary task like saving data and state. 
					{
							"detail-type": "EC2 Spot Instance Interruption Warning",
							"source": "aws.ec2",
							"version": "0",
							"detail": {
									"instance-id": "i-1234567890abcdef0",
									"instance-action": "hibernate or stop or terminate"
							}
							.....
					}					
					
					
					
					
	 
  Dedicated Host:
    Generally if you need to follow soome regulatory protocols. and you need the physical server dadicated to you only.
    This physically hosted server do lies in AWS building but unlike other EC2, this are solely assign to you.
    Very costly


	On-Demand instance Pricing model:-
		You will be charged(for compute power) for strat instance only not for the stop or hibernate instance.
		For started instance you will be charged 
			for minmum 1 minute if up time < 60 sec
			for exact number of second if up time > 60
		EG:
			for up time = 30 sec charges will be for 1 mnt
			for up time = 1 mnt 30 sec charges will be for 1 mnt 30 sec
		
EBS:-
  Snapshot:-
  
  Volume:-
  
Load Balancer:-

EIP:+
